This was a time when people when I could do this, provide provocation where people were murdered can be in the wrong kind of our to make it kind of felt.
Sound like Star Wars fans and what's happening with your new Star Wars films.
Excerpts
Hi I'm Chas Fisher.
And I'm Stu Willis.
And welcome to drive serial podcast where to Aussie filmmakers try to work out what makes great screenplays work.
And this episode of Mercedes sweet but we're not bad for your friends episode we are three there's three of us cuz we are joined with join with again by Stephen Cleary,
do a couple of sorts got a follow up to our sequences episode this episode is looking at keymatic sequences I'm going to do a bit of a recap of our.
Previous episode of sequences which you should listen to me but basically Steven Theory which we went through in great detail for three hours,
when he was different kinds of sequences they will put sequences character sequences and character sequences no it Stephen Sunrise them again please,
come up with this idea that maybe there is a.
4th 5th kind of sequence meaning of the story,
any kind of the idea of what we talked about the films that we gonna be looking at Love Actually Apocalypse Now in the bedroom and the exterminator.
Best welcome to the once again welcome back to drive 0.
It's great to be as always.
NRL diamond Mata Nola.
Yes we're back at the Victorian College of the Arts where we met last entry.
So do I need to run through the consequences idea to summarise.
Yeah that'll be that'll be great.
Where would I just said there are three we went before we looked at three kinds of sequences which are 6 is very
briefly out sections of a story,
there is no determine length of them late and it's features to be around 12 minutes on average can be long I can be sure to in television drama that can build tend to be shorter near town on average but again there's no set length,
Saving Private Ryan for example hasn't it Mexican 26 minutes so depending on me what's going on in the sequence um what's going on the story the changes,
the defining a cat resting the sequences it it's if you like a chapter of a story that has a distinct in a feel that when you arrive at the end of it you very evil rugby under the face of the story
and the sequences driven in a plot sequence by 1/8 in question there are lots of,
what questions that are raised in answered or raised and answered later in the story but within the sequences,
one sequence question which is the saying what is the plot question that this sequence raises to the surface asks explores and answers within the,
sequence Excel,
and then usually that answer has a consequence so because the answer is what it is something happen so because that something happens very often leads you just the beginning of the next sequence a question.
Epoxy quick question is as it sounds just ate a straightforward loquitur plus sequence main purpose is to going to drive the plot forward so in an action story for example your questions will be predominant,
in a big big action movies have those kinds of questions,
can you have a clock character sequence weather is still the primary question in the sequence the most important one is 2 question,
but it tends to be rather slightly looser question,
it's not quite so driven and it's really there till late 140 character so because this is happening in the story whatever the plot question is that gives the writer an opportunity to the audience not because you want to stand the people better so that their the plot,
character a question stimulus-driven less,
emphatic slows the pacing of the story down with them and that slowing down the plot the character going to sleep through the cracks it says it's a mechanism to Orem I mean destructuring to allow that can have characters to come,
Warwick.
We can spend more time with characters not pursuing.
Yeah your classic questions question will be in a will this character die in the next 10 minutes so the only thing I'm worried about is what about due to not die.
The plot character sequence will be something like you know for example will this person managed to attract attention of that woman,
so it's something that could be much more leisurely and actually what you're doing is you're using that attempt at this man may have with this woman may have to trap the tension another woman the kind of explore the character of that person who is looking to catch the person's attention
how do I say to a degree to draw the character of the other person say it say it say it means by which you keep the story moving forward,
but not at such a driven paste that means that you have to get a stop think about the characters.
That a character sequence is where really want these what's going on in the story is primarily you looking to 140 character,
and you're not that concerned with plot it is a much more less frequent than will wrap because they're more difficult.
Because if you imagine telling a story while you're saying within this say 10-15 minutes section of the store I don't really want to have much plot.
Send the question then becomes a y z what he's interested cause normally what pools and what is requested what's going to happen next even if you were having a character go in a sewer story if you see what I'm having a car to go for a story but I'm not that bothered,
about the autistic and what is going to happen to that character next then you're gonna throw in the audience back on the one thing which is who is this person really.
Not quite the Builder dramatised without,
things happening if a character starting at the wolf 15 minutes the question who are there really is very hard to answer cause I'm doing anything so when you take the plotting away,
downplay it and even though you think we're like there's a lot of space a character problem you then get easier but what are you actually dramatized the character doing and if you say what I'm not doing much then eat that you sing with you to see the problems that arise with it so character,
sequence is a quite unusual and very often quite stylize the things that you have to do in the character secrets keep the orders involved and interested is make it very,
emphatic and intense in certain ways I can be for example you're going to be tense dialogue.
Weather darling as frantic and very clever and very difficult to understand to do it this is really having to work hard just to get understanding the doylo mate leaves naked with example we used.
Weather characters France at the characters going nowhere doesn't really have any objective but you kind of just,
entranced if you like this kind of thing by the energy that they have an CUA very often a very energetic sequences using,
this is character I say they're at their unusual.
There's an amazing scene and I call it it's a scene but it's also sequences due to it's length bed in hunger,
the Steve McQueen film the scene between Michael Fassbender and the priest is in Stark contrast because it's so dialogue heavy on a film that is not,
featured any much dialogue I'll carry to up until that point but then suddenly got two people and there's no at all it's not like.
What I can see is the same question that's been raised the whole time as I will this please convince him to eat essentially but then that's not what is keeping your audience.
Engaged about who are these two people how do they interact how they rub off.
Excerpts
We talk about this relate to the thematic thing as well that within those days between like character,
character question stories I can still be an overarching plot question,
and at the beginning and the end but it's the middle becomes character expiration I think that's actually thinking about it now kind of true,
of all the forms including exterminating angel which is more obscure the beginning of that found and we'll get into any more detail but basically one of their help please with no explanation,
it is basically dinner party and he leaves in there is no explanation for about why he is leaving and so that creates the question in the audience which is why they leading what is happening there is something strange.
And then that's a better framing device um I've actually uses the framing device in Apocalypse Now is a framing device in the bedrooms only one of the for example.
Word for that when we get to the film the question I have cos we did talk a lot about intensity in our sequence.
Sequences will really have you scream intensity.
Character sequences have this intensity coming from weather in dialogue which is in contrast imaging we talked about there be blood that's intensity of the imagery and off music.
Title sequence contains be one or I get the other one Big W's from born with the homestead sequence weather out to get for newborn doesn't know so there is an intensity we're feeling.
The suspense is killing concern to use Stevens don't concern for born but he is unaware so he's got time to cut it slowly reveal character question that I've got,
you can obviously explore the next however long is what's the intensity in the thematic.
Sequences like I understand on any Majestic sequences you know I kind of you know what I mean it's automatic sequence where's the intensity.
They did the difference between a thematic sequence and a thematic question if you like and any other kind of sequence is that.
Thematic sequence is not answered by simply looking at the story that you're being told the question a thematic sequence raises is a question,
the deliberately exposed to the audience as a post to,
played out in the in the it if you like in in the in the world of the story so he said where's the intensity intensity mathematics sequence comes from something that happens the order says watching the secret so they use to the video
sequences or questions or character secrets and carrot questions or plot character and none of us there so they wouldn't start to cast around.
You done messed up the doctor can have to work something out know what happens very often when you have this kind of story is it the oldest gives up.
Is it a good section of the orchestra just go I can't understand this I don't know what place we going on I don't know who these people are,
I don't think I care and they they the disengage from the story.
We can do that with There Will Be Blood last time I was like what makes this so compelling in you guys were like 12 a lot of people didn't find it compelling.
So that's the quotes that the danger of it and they said only so why on earth would a storyteller use a technique,
what you're trying to do in some senses to have the audience realise that by following what the characters do the not going to get anywhere I'm by trying to work out what's going on they're not going to get anywhere,
and then at that point I just had good to Portuguese go well I want stories that if I can follow the story I understand the characters I can this is what the story is.
And this doesn't seem to be that kind of a story so I'm leave it.
If you do this kind of work in a broad and we will get the exterminating angels example I would use for that but will come to it later.
Send you doing a very particular reason which is that the whole point is and it's a deeply.
The personal web of storytelling is that you're saying to the audience.
The things that you need to understand and no I'm not contained in my story that contained in in some way and you'll relationship,
with what I'm thinking and feeling when I'm telling you the story in order to make you say what is the point of this,
and in some ways what you get is a much more direct dialogue between the the storyteller the filmmaker the rates and the audience.
I watch typical the first time love and I went and looked at letterbox reviews of it,
and basically there's a whole bunch of five stars and there's a whole bunch of like one star or half a star,
where people are like this was boring I don't get it all this is pretentious or whatever and so in some ways it seems like these kinds of films can,
BD when taken to the extreme cause I won't think it maybe it's worth getting into Love Actually it's the most mainstream example of what we talking about I'm in front of face of the film is telling you in its title what it's about and then invoice over just in case.
So maybe we should start with Love Actually.
Excerpts
What I really like about the homework that we've so late because you're asking about intensity and I'm kind of interested in the same thing but phrase differently I'm interested in if you were wanting to use film be a narrative,
or otherwise and I think exterminating Angels,
Apocalypse Now at about 4 examples of the kind of less narratively driven.
If you want to force your audience you wanted to think about a certain topic or idea then of the homework we've done the four different films,
each do that in a very different way and the question that I'm interested in his how to force the audience to as you say Stephen likes it back and go what is this all about while also hopefully keeping them.
Seafood and interested in in the story and I think the four pills we've got here do that in very different ways.
Yeah there was a quick one I make is it when you say no worries cuz what is this all about that is their bodies is asking the question what is the theme of this story,
what's all about is what the theme is you get that's how you define if you miss the underlying idea that because it's underneath the surface of the plot in the characters etc so absolutely you're getting me going is so what is this really about is you can you ask
thematic question not a question of character.
I'll I'll say this now but I'm cause something that I think other films.
Will tend to do that are even more mainstream is the thematic sequence might be at the end I'm coming back we've done team a couple of times if so then I talked about for this recording which is we do that while doing theme episode of media argument scene episode,
at the end of x Macintosh is basically killed her create a general hux in the.
Building a sequence of her just going out into the world,
and it's played with music to again on to talk to into the city and they could have just ended with her escaping but they chosen to continue that film I think to let you ponder what it means to have her out in the world I don't think that's awesome.
Infinity War.
Moments after the big climax where it kind of wells on what on what's happened there what is everything out these film what we're doing is it though steamatic sequences art.
Just the end of the film did they find moments to a bit earlier which is interesting and has a device that I think as a filmmaker might be in thing to have other than the climate at the moment.
Are you going to do when you have it at the end of the film The cost to put them in block question and current Queens have been answered,
so what Allison interesting thing that what happens when you as well take away plus a car to questions,
is the theme bubbles up with you I'm imagine is like I might and no stories come like her a piece of a piece of ground that characters of walking across and then walking along if you take the characters away and if you take away the plot away,
the theme is under the surface basic starter come out like a gas from the cracks in the ground and just start to come into the as it we're the invisible world,
that's what happens if you don't have semen car it's a problem character running then what inevitably happened to steam comes out and when you were talking about playing with him it's about knowing that that the theme is always there but normally it's those away heading that drives and pushes the character in the plot along,
but if you take the car to plot away but Sam is going to be coming it's time to rise up anyone.
So going to Love Actually and talking about what makes it intense I mean I think.
Why why we've chosen as a has a film here so for those of you who have not seen Love Actually it's a number of different stories that are somewhat interrelated but the only interrelated I think her,
storytelling convenience because they're the stories,
these characters hand off to one in another cause they know each other but their stories don't impact on one another for the most part there's just telling a number of different stories,
nearly all in a kind of romance kind of story but there's,
a number of different settings as Colin Firth who's heartbroken falling in love with his Portuguese made who doesn't speak English.
Excerpts
There's you know who the famous and much parodied Andrew Lincoln,
where is the best man and he's in love with her his best friends bride and with her sign card.
Classic nice guy.
There's I mean some my favourite ones are actually even the least potted ones it's there the two standings.
So I've got other list to you that you've got the storyline and Juliet Peter and Mark so Juliet's the Keira Knightley Peter's the I'm not going to feel well I'm yet I'll let you handle.
Timber telephone probably wrong.
You got more confident in me and Angela Winton.
Excerpts
You got Harry Karen and Mia so Harry's the Alan Rickman character is married to.
Emma Thompson who is Karen.
Who happens to be the sister of you've got David and Natalie David is Hugh Grant who is the new and somehow single p.m. cause like that happened.
Excerpts
And you've got to cater Daniel Sam Joanna and Carol Daniel is Liam Neeson whose wife passes away from cancer and he is left to raise his step son.
You've got the Sara you got the ceracolla Michael storyline which is basically the Sarah works for Alan rickman's character this is how all the internet and it she is taking care of her brother.
And she also has a crush on her own the company.
Brazilian cocoa.
Excerpts
Now there is so many I'm I'm in should I keep on going.
Strong enough to wreck it.
The point being is each of these individual story.
Has overarching the Berry potted deflate each of them has very very clear.
Dramatic questions questions some of them have more character driven questions than others really hit you in the feels are often,
they're the ones where they are more character driven questions like I mean in particular.
Because she becomes aware of his is unclear whether is done anything but his interest in another woman outside.
And that's why would you say that support question I carry to question the idea of will Alan rickman's character waiver is call I've got an old lady will Harry to sleep with me or do you think that's a clock question mark question on boat.
It's 8 o'clock question I was.
Cuz you can clearly see it right.
But I think what you don't know is there's more a character driven question is can there can Harry and Karen's relationship survive this this Saturday events late.
I would say that's the consequence of the answer to the,
what question which is you know it's going to be sometimes you say 4 o'clock quotes about chicken story but I'm like will Harry betray Karen,
weather in physical sleeps alarm is not the point the point is he has your name and open a biblical sense he is emotionally is betrayed her and then the questions to the consequences do you know are they going I only worked out that he has that she knows that,
and that ain't and again.
Bushy she confronts him in energy as one of the best teams in the whole film is there doing a Christmas concert the kids have just performed at and she confronts him and tell him that she knows.
Excerpts
That that won't get me every time and I think we're as you say that the character question the questions are resolved in that it's all out in the open.
I know it's just about who are these people going to be and how are they going to react as a result.
You can see those in the other stories that Jamie in orella storylines are very.
Is a kind of almost a classic Wonka meme eat them they don't they got language to cook these Bay falling in love and then hear you've got him meetings going to quit you know he goes and teaches himself Portuguese and then goes if I know right that's ok question will he win the girl.
What is in seeing as they don't necessarily all have that as strongly plotted like I don't think the Juliet and Peter and Mark storyline which is about her realising that,
her husbands best man is in love with her.
Been a really Crush kind of like I've no idea yet cuz it's it's it's a weird relationship that feels less plotted in the same way.
An evil and then relation which we didn't get to became of the name of the characters the standard.
Martin Freeman.
John and Judy vagina page and Martin Freeman John and Judy I'll be standing is an important and it's just a relationship building.
It's Adam I don't know there's a point of it feels like a young Henry Jane.
Whatever 2000.
Yeah but I definitely more clutch why would you have standard.
Seventies erotica.
Burnett be there in a hugely that they do I guess they're the comedy of that sequence cuz it's really it's when I say fast kind of sequence is is that there these two people who are in,
hugely intimate situations who were.
Getting to know each other.
Excerpts
So I guess I'm it'll be scattered around the place those storylines cause they seem to be to varying degrees,
got it right so where do the cinematic sequences structurally come in.
To me there's the pizza in the climax of the film is,
almost everyone at the airport given that this is that kind of in some ballora hyperlink of like where does everyone meet and they will happen to be at the airport at the end gives you that moment of reflection but as we talked about that in itself is not necessarily uncommon structure.
The question to ask that gives you an indication of how thematically this is so it to this is it if you ask a question who is the protagonist.
Because it's a question that in this story interesting cuz I've been to lectures and read books and you know conversation people who always want there to be a protagonist.
Wish I were you know and then I think something like there's a group protagonist so that's ok.
Who is weather lead character Beach story all the protagonist you know and if that's the case that seems to me to be a bit silly.
I think because of the number of they've all got their unique story.
Yes he said there a number of stories in this in this film I need to list always has a protagonist absolutely agree ok who is the protagonist.
He says he isn't a protagonist.
The answer makes a lot of people in screenwriting classes and have a very very Annie.
Because there is a Scott of orthodoxy that there should be a with protagonist I'm people say a story always has a protagonist am I answer that is no it doesn't most of the time story has protagonist,
when you don't have an overall protagonist just as you said OK what's the over o'clock question ever look like with individual clock.
Each of those is just completely conventional normal just as there a completely conventional protagonist really say what the overall clockwise to eat there isn't one,
ok so we have most films have an overall clock questionable character question have an oval protagonist have a level and take this to him
don't have any of those things so what happens when you take away the structural supports do a story you order it starts to think cast around for something else that gives me doing ok here and send it meaning.
When is no plot question overall there's no current question ever off you then come to see me because that's always them and then it is what's this you what this is really bad it's really about love is lots of different stories about Love Love Actually,
and that's not this is nothing great profound inside you know that we talk about what it is interesting to note that there isn't it,
parking structures that normally hold their stories together again and when they said I can just go the theme is all you have to hang on to until the theme becomes primary or nothing.
And what are you thinking maybe having a spectrum of questions he to the storyline help so you've got something that is,
more plotted which is Ben Liam Neeson's relationship with his step son's get someone to learn drums he wants to win the girl there is a concert at the end like that is a very strong sequins and in compared to and also to be on his manager,
selling the Christmas song it's a very Potter Tune I want to be number 1 on Christmas with this terrible song.
Excerpts
I want to I just want to like jump into you saying you're absolutely there's no protagonist so that immediately makes you.
You look forcing horses you look for the connection string story.
Exactly but I think what's different.
What then there is the audience to make the connection
I rather normally the characters in story do all the work for you and you watch them it says OK take away those character to potatoes
the audience how to make to make the meaning the median is not fair on the page on the screen opening as constructed by the audience as they walk.
And then he's in contrast to Contagion which we did early which is Elsa in some will some everyone is affected by a single might fall antagonistic force which is the virus in that film and that means we know what the fuck it's about because it's about how everyone deals with her
this the antagonist is almost,
I think anyway it's the idea of love and the way that each of these different people do you with love in various form.
But I think such a contract so you've got I think there's a lot of movies out there that are either of you call them either and,
I'm going to say Anthology because not ensemble cos ensemble I think you can have late
Little Miss Sunshine isn't ensemble film but they're all on the same story right where it so this is an Anthology this is a group of stories been told together and Contagion is like he difference here I think if you pause this film at any point,
and I said so what's this film about bacon say it's about love because it starts with the bloody.
Excerpts
But I couldn't say.
Question that this is because there is no unifying question like in Contagion there is and I think there are other films that use this Anthology to be very.
Magnolia traffic crash Paul haggis is crash for all the people better at it.
Horror TV series like the wire you know like that.
Will come later on me to a TV cause I think it's this this way to have me but seemed is quite specialise in particular in relation to cinema when you think about television it's much more common,
is much more useful and and I would say generally a way of thinking about story structuring then and in television series then it isn't.
I think in television as well you've got the luck so you've got the luxury to.
Have seen sequences even whole episodes where you were dropping out of the lodge there any bottle episode in the TV series.
And there's the theme of the episode do you know American God's sent all about what is the theme.
Coming back to Love Actually we talk about this opening voice over so there is a book ending structure to it so it opens at the airport and with the voice over is that.
Is it something that these kinds of thematic films.
Are they fit would you say that cinematically driven that all these things are ultimately you watching it not to know character or to go on flight but you're going 15 in the examples that we using.
I think I think that what you're saying is the only show look here I'll have them in a 9 stories about love.
And what it shows is love is a many faceted thing in am in broad terms there lots of different ways we write love the experience of straight you straight away.
We know it's kind of within the context and Co curricular repressed English white writing it is kind of coming he's lots of stories about love as I understand it.
Right from the razor from my experience,
and the Furious watching it gets a can of warm feeling alone and it's not you're not kind of again you're not engaged and you're not primarily engaged anyone character story you looking at this rain so you would that for them games with character is this is less than normal
so it's not again it's not completely overwhelming it's some this beautiful writing and some,
very high class racist soap the Emma Thompson storyline I got a couple of minutes that I have to kill is a couple of lines and it's got a truth listening pain in that,
the great thing about Curtis is a writer About Love great about when love is painful much more interesting than when he is my love is Love Leo.
Decking around says make me sick but when Curtis writes about the painted love is using very very good,
and it is did they discover great moments in that so that all moments way 20 straight home because you're such a good writer but you're not playing games it's a kind of piece of fluff and because there are no great character I'm going to be that structures that pull you so you think about
this film I know you think about people you know when you think about experiences you've had in this process of watching this film is a much more,
interactive experience the many stories you're not lost in the story your kind of,
pulled away slightly and you're thinking oh well you let this happen to me and I know that friendly no listen and you were kind of exploring love.
The concept of you both in your own life and on-screen as you.
I mean when my partner and I watch it every Christmas and have probably like 5 or 6 years and she was doing it before me
and it works like fucking magic cinematic beauty right I always cry even though I've seen this feeling so many times but it is because of that
mutuality interactive choosing to watch a particular time of year where you reflective the film allows you to be self reflective in your own lies and then feel the warmth of her,
the different forms of love within your life.
Exterminating angel boom world rights that film mxf improving particular reason we did nothing to do with a characters in a plot on the story I Love Actually is written for particular reason which is not is nothing to be primarily with the character MapleStory it is to make you think about love,
it was way to make the audience think about love when well is doing it quickly got something else but when you discover thematic,
oak structuring we're actually taking the way plus and character the same as is much more important it's about making the audience think about something,
and that's what's really interesting about this it's it's kind of it's not I wouldn't risk register political filmmaking but it's a film making the rate of a storytelling that array to users when they have something strong to say,
so it's another say the prime primer with intention is not,
really to entertain even though Curtis is a great entertainer too but he's taking care of it as well he's actually more interested in something else which is what is our.
Not these characters experience what is our experience of love and how can I provoke us into thinking about that by showing your number stories about.
He doesn't he very deliberately from a pacing and craft perspective does not give us many moments to.
Actively sit back and well in that thematic question because it's so tightly the fact that it is superficial new bouncing from story two storey means that you are constantly cat.
Some water to remove from the story deliberately so that you are engaged but the only moments where you are completely.
Thematic sequence from a craft perspective is those bookends where they're showing footage from people hugging each other at Heathrow Airport and the and the very beginning you got no contacts for it other than the voice over but at the very,
end of the movie there's no voice over there's just music and all those Claritin Club questions have been resolved and you just sitting there and that sequence you were watching that.
And obviously the music and seeing images of of love.
And lots of different images eat it allows you to related to yourself.
Absolutely but that is the only point I think as a filmmaker where he's like you as an audience member sit back and think about love rather than thinking about,
what questions or carried question is all done it's just late now sit back and dwell on the experience that I just take anyone and how that relates to you.
And the same way that A story can be heavily plus at all lately plus a day whatever I am I doing thematic Street could be heavily thematic work to be likely thematic I think Curtis is a good commercial film-maker
Erica most imperative you know you got to give you what is locked on good well as it is working from a different place he doesn't mind if I feel just walk out the Curtis would regard.
Like my car audio.
Curtis would you go that is a sailor ok so he's looking to find us at the light rain but absolutely what's interesting about both stories is it you know when you have a and overriding overarching thematic structure,
you have to still have this problem keep your what is engaged so cut a micro level you still play very powerful games of character and plot
because you know you see how you pulled a question and when you have a no we don't have an overarching is o'clock? Card question is how do I get the audience in how do I get them watching,
answering both Garry's Mod films is you keep them in the moment do the quest of what's happening next in the next 15 seconds
is very alive and doing well throughout Just Like It Isn't Love Actually,
the question of how does all this make any sense in a broader context and low battery it's Connor is quite sweet and simple and over and extermination Angela because they want other places to go to because he hasn't given you a the storylines another character to get to know,
you left with these characters in grey quickly you ask a question what's going on how do I make any sense of this and if you give up you give up,
Love Actually go what's going on as soon as you go how to make sense of humour another story line and you just have to keep watching in order to make sense of everything so he can't pull you through to the end without you can I go it doesn't really have any proper structure.
Get it re ask that question at the end he said he got you and you guys United Club good piece of commercial writing somatically then well isn't just as much more of a,
Purist he's not using multiple storylines because I noticed anything about magnolia
we are halfway between the two magnoli has 3 or 4 5 storyline not as many as Love Actually says not as busy but storylines a longer so you have more time with the characters does more character that for these methods of complexity of plot in each of the stories,
but you then used to because it's slightly more time you then start to have to question the way that love actually doesn't allow you to so much why am I seeing these different stories,
why we're not just with why what's going on here.
During the film there there moments where you can see the I mean in the most Classic Way in Magnolia is when they all stop and start singing.
Which is the only man which is adware thematic sequence which is you know they will stop singing and then what left I'm saying this is not going to stop and you'll to wiser until you guys up which is what the theme of this
you know which is that's what it's all about but you know what say what say what is it really about the theme is that you know you have to face up one must face up to the things that make you who you are before you have any possible to chat.
We talk about ending but I think what in contrast of exterminate.
It's not that the first question of Love Actually is not a prob question it's not a character question,
it's a t matter question so means the story is framed and it's the multi protagonist storyline suction super loud the opening voice over starts with a v matter question,
where is talking one cuz we mine because of the antagonist he's all is lost his what happened to this guy bed opens with questions a lot of them,
all all Shaman opens with a car to question Love Actually opens with a thematic question and then the middle of it may be more bloated but it still,
by choosing I get that.
Middle you're saying.
To an extent yes.
I'm just saying like like it's intervention cause I think Apocalypse Now actually opens with a t matter question that I'm not sure I'm not sure it's terminal does and so maybe we should move on to exterminating Angel sounds like.
Terminator remake but it is.
Excerpts
Have you met me before those people who don't know Luis Manuel
maybe Liberty contact been well as Spaniard bonus and also which is northern part of Spain and he grew up the beginning of century
and he fled Spain work if let Spain during the Spanish Civil War and stayed out to Spain during the second World War in the fact couldn't come back for quite a long time to really couldn't go back quite a long time is because he would have an executed is.
Best friend university or two best friends one was Gabriel Garcia lorca the great playwright than the other is so Salvador Dali the painter and a look at was executed during the Spanish Civil War.
Urban well made a phone call Shannon delivery famous film co-written the Salvador Dali surrealist Masterpiece and simple thing to understand but when will I think it summed up in what happened when he showed the time in Paris which is the haircut,
bottom of the pocket of his trousers off and extended his pockets so is pockets going to went down to just below is me and if Elders pockets with Rocks,
because he was expecting the audience when he saw his film to write and attacking me if she knew this was a time when people
when I could do this, provide provocation where people were murdered keto Bing.
Like Star Wars fans and what's happening with your new Star Wars films.
Being the wrong kind of outer to make it wrong kind of felt like this about point and serialism was,
and fundamentally was arrived at that time a revolutionary movement was about changing things it wasn't about you know it and it was actually using r to change the size,
I'm gonna lose sight about so this is the kind of guy we talking about his up,
he's at he's an anarchist and revolutionary artist and his making films that are not about entertaining the audience this is a story.
Is not trying to make money.
Money and he's not trying to know he he he he can is a beautiful italic he made many ready for mention films had a very successful career making films in Spanish and Mexican industry completely conventional films as a director but when he made the times he wanted to mate.
Give me three different the last time we made it is called that obscure object of desire and he was working with Carole Bouquet the French actress I need to get on with that.
And they were shooting the filament she wouldn't do stuff you wanted to do and she wouldn't work the hours you wanted to work this week at another actress in the same role as heard the same character played by two women.
I wanted to do a remake Denis what we make with Jesse plemons and Matt Damon playing that character.
So this is very very playful in the way that serious are you know if you got a problem with an answer he goes ok well if I get off work by Casting another in the same,
an alternating when I shoot them this can solve the problem of the actress not being very happy I producing so yeah but you got an actor you got a character that from shot two shot changes,
physically from one woman to another and he goes well it doesn't matter you know that the effect that is interesting so this is the kind of film we talk about,
this is the story of the exterminating angel,
Saturn in Spain the server and Start Living as a big dinner going to happen in at just before everyone gets back,
from a night at the opera whether they've been the 7th. To go and at the time the gas would normally leave they come and have dinner there a move that jackets to listen again just settle down for the night in the house weather been having this dinner so don't go home no explanation given
they just don't.
Let's morning for some inexplicable reason they are unable to leave their simply can't leave the room there in and there's a like an archway in the room that leads to the exit and they cannot go past the archway,
no explanation given days pass in the situation maybe come first in hungry and koala seven hostile hysterical one of the gas an old man dies.
At least up his body in a large cupboard n and stuff Curtin around the edge of the cupboards had this stinkin is the game called doesn't get too hot horrible satellitism invited and another cupboard which is where they
defecate the weather pass because you know it's good so sensible question if they're stuck in the room there's no toilet where do they get the toilet he will answer that,
how do they got the toilet I'm sitting in the Ming vase it means I was in a cupboard which is one side.
But like them Tim dingo cynical.
Eventually the gas Breakwall open to get to water pipe and then several sheep in the bath find their way into the room walkthrough the room.
It's not as absurdist as it sounds like they will kids.
Waverley set up.
Let me set up a slow to the sheet and roast them on the fire ok because the Internet gotta meet someone suggests.
Yeah buddy furniture so much so much so I guess just the host,
is responsible he must be sacrificed it all looks like Senator very nasty and then one of the other guys sees at that moment that they're all seated in the very same positions as they were just before this whole situation get out the room.
And so she says what if we all sit in the same position again what might happen and they do that and they find a free to leave so the problem we can't leave the room is now over they all are free to leave,
outside the gas agree to my local police the service all the wind outside waiting to see what happened who would themselves couldn't go in to find these people.
So to get thanks for the Salvation the gas go to church and send a service at the cathedral when the service is over though the church goes along with a priest inside fine they are trapped in the.
And they can't leave the situation in the church is then followed by a riot in the streets the military then step into to pump down the fire on the right is in the last very last thing we see in the sea Missy the shop a flock of sheep,
going into the church accompanied by the sound of gunshots sound.
What does row mean.
The great thing about it why don't I love the same myself personally so I think it's terrific it's entertaining that all the way through it's it's it's such a sad strange story and yet I find it quite engrossing mobile moment you're going to pulled into it.
I was going to say the way that it is actually very similar to Love Actually is that throughout the whole thing.
It is There are tons of mini Plunkett question again if you pause it at any point.
NZ what is the pot question is the same question throughout the whole thing will these people ever be able to leave right hand.
There's no kind of character arcs or protagonist.
But in any given moment there is a very very particular client questions posed as micro plated to,
within an and agreed and my favourite example from all of these is the most kind of hysterical.
Character in there's this woman is constantly being looked after by the rest of the group and there's a point where she from starvation or just the Psychological pressure the situation.
Has a hallucination of the Dead character you've mentioned his hand.
The severed hand comes out of the cupboard and there's an evil dead sequences like there in any given moment in well as working very hard to keep you engaged even though,
there is no other overarching.
I mean nothing else the point is if you look at some love actually feel like this room so there's nothing but actually very very similar there are large number of characters beach those characters in there so many has a little tiny story of the rain and you go back that's doing those two ways kind of wonderful,
soda in it so you could argue that essentially rather than so that's basically we put all of actually characters in a wow,
you know and the same space oh you said you got your own allowed to leave will you get is it ok to rich curtains murdered exterminating angel it'll play out then it'll still reasoning close mostly what I have to get out.
Virginia.
So you know it's oh so you can you can see that the reason it's similar is because the right has a wrestling with the same problem which is a they both want to get this colour format equations out and when you take away the overarching question
questioning change which accept agonist antagonist.
The characters do I love about it I don't try and get out the room do they try and get out once and they realise they can't not one character in this film says why can't we go out of the room.
Not one character goes what if we try and go out the window.
What one character goes what have you picked up something like 10 we can't physically go through the archway but if I bring suspect of an ashtray and throughout the archway,
could that do it so.
Unify.
Throw things out of their art.
Unit in a scifi thriller dinner party Thriller version of this convergence or whatever that would be the weather like how do we escape and it becomes like in dimensional version of it's all about how they try to escape.
What is watches if it's goes way out there trying to escape one of experimenting to see the band is this while me and that's the question he wants you to ask you but it goes uncle bully what is going,
why don't you think they're all what do you think the answer that question is,
ok so automatically no longer question who are these people and what are they doing it what is the question why don't they do that and then what is going out why haven't like why aren't they doing that and then eventually be what it will get to the answer.
Because that's not what the story is about.
That's that's what when where is interested it is now I just said he's quite happy for her but should we go there trying to get out of makes no sense the making no effort
biggest stupid people are like I'm going home to watch her you know what episode of CSI cause that's much more sense when I'm at work so that's what they do.
Ok but then the people that remained ok well I'm watching a story weather characters don't think it be interested anything logical and sensible.
And then so why is a story exist what's it for and then you then comes another question we just who are these people and what is a story really about,
does it matter question if you go well I have to accept that is not about will they find a way out and the reason to find a way out to the UN is an accident,
woman who says what if we do this I don't know Point previous in the story made any effort to get out the room.
Yeah she's a Valkyrie woman she said she know she's a strange,
Foreigner over chicken not insignificant in the story the reason she finds out his is an accident no point in the story to the gas at any point with a bit of a story try and find a way out.
You know that they worry about their immediate needs they worry about being hungry and worry about you know like they were about water they worry about the weather felt look to each other they worry still still way through about social niceties,
to worry about the order of things I should talk to her when we people.
The question you asked his voice this one is a still exist to talk know once you get to that point been well as like good will be here we go this is what it's about is using because I think question,
and then you say ok so when well there's created a story which seems to go against all normal conventions of how story should work what can I understand about this and you say what I know is that he seems to be completely,
I'm ignorant of narrative cos he's very skillful using narrative of a micro level but he's not interested in it commercial narrative.
And then you go OK well that what I mean is if he's interested in more than telling a story so what is it he's really into the menu items question what is this mean and then you look at it you stand by.
And if it doesn't work not having strong character questions not having strong clockwise you stand back and you look at them and you look at this character these people in this room is these people kind of like creatures in the zoo,
the kind of in a cage and yet you feel slightly distance from the you start to look at them as people to keep a specimens if you like and then you said as soon as you do this then she lived there all members the bourgeoisie.
And this this and that and then you get to the Heart of the Swarm is really about it's not that difficult to is quite clear really when you think about what he's saying is.
This is the Spanish boys Wesley you made me feel in Mexico because he couldn't make it this bad because he would have been,
prison by the government to maybe like a friend or he would have an x,
what you saying is these people are so obsessed with a man you shave their lives in the social order of things the structure of things they don't understand even question the outside world,
dentist and to have their own world anything outside it would is completely ignored so for example I can't leave the room they don't go why can't I leave the room why is the world like it is these people I think.
This is the way it is this the order of things the spit natural order this is natural.
So if I did ask a question they would like they might have to admit that the way they understand the world is not how the world is and they did that they will recover.
So what you're saying is this is the boys Rosie this is what the middle class the Indian questioning middle class of Spain a fascist country just killing people in this agree with it this is how they survive.
They don't ask questions that it question outside and is it they will be visiting did they will be gone forever and they would have to change and they would rather be comfortable and then close space you know she thinking meme.
There would be to none understand how the world is just going to attack on the bourgeoisie
what he's asking you to do is think about the need for the bourgeoisie he's not interested in telling a story about you know the entertains with plight what he's saying is we,
as political animals need to think about the next bourgeoisie because there is a coming Revolution.
You know we have to understand what he's doing whatever you did not in the film is outside of the film and that's what I'm trying I'm trying to make a film that tells the audience if you want to know what this means you have to come away from the film and think about things,
and that's what the matter stretching is really for which occurred is in a match.
More different sweet away the same come out of the characters think about nature of love here we say anything about the nature of Royal Society and also.
Because he doesn't realise he thinks narrative isn't itself a Boardwalk.
It's a bird it's a construction just like these people put a frame in their lives and all to give themselves meanings I don't look beyond,
he thinks that narrative is the same thing we have beginning middle names we don't have like strange things happening there is no logic in the stories because that makes us think the movie world is a Lodge.
I mean this is a tangible you've travelled the world,
dealing with story and I have an experience member reading the Writer's journey the Hero's journey is a very American ideal and is comparing it to Australian cinema,
and it's like wow creation it's a very different.
The Hero's journey the American Idol American exceptionalism travelling building for junior new life is very different the Australian experience with almost you know you got the indigenous population which is almost wiped out,
buy a Invader that was sending their prison population in Shane's here and then,
650 ways of immigrants to ultimately playing some kind of catastrophe like understandably our stories in our narrative structures are very different and it's a question that I often have is that,
idea of I made a joke about the last Jedi not sure if you seen at the recent Star Wars Melbourne there's a story line that basically be heroes
fail at the structural point you expect M16 and people are like this is terrible storytelling I don't understand why we follow that story like when they contribute nothing
to the cause and it's like in Brunel film that is the point the point of that story mine is to make you question,
would a book what this movie is about which is their belief that by being Rebels by being the rebellion of the resistance give them Victory by death.
If you look at one of the great Australian movies Picnic at Hanging Rock again and if centre picnic Hanging Rock is a question what happened with the film has no interest in it.
Adidas girls got into mountain and they don't come back,
and all the characters in the film The Laptop puzzling about what happened to film never answer the question and in fact if you start if you come out that film,
saying what a film is really interesting is answering the question what happened to those girls you completely misunderstood the film was making me which is about,
what happened to those girls in some way the landscape took them gate which is a fantastic as a poetic description of the history of Australia,
the name and the second WhatsApp with people not the people here but the people came in some way the landscape took them.
Thematic story I meant Hanging Rock is concerned with the quest of exploring the nation of Australian white identity in relation to the landscape,
you know and the terror that won't Australia fields for the landscape that's kind of what I film is Alyssa thematic idea it's not there's a lot about you know it has a plotted beginning they go up the mountain,
but they never come back on the only question that happened this never really,
it's not really want to go alone so when you watch me what you've got I think he's not a sense of results.
Listen to resolve characters you get a sense of There's a Kind of mixture or and strangeness and got discomfort slight anxiety,
can you watch that film in that kind of you and then you ask yourself why do I feel like this and then you know that'll make a house of yes why do you feel like,
Mr Australian Cinema gal Mrs Australian the weight Cinema go what do you feel when you confronted with the inevitable ineffable mystery of the Australian.
Thematic quest.
Wolf Creek I asked the same question in a very different or replying back to the exterminating angel.
Ostensibly this episode is on sequences promatic sequences phases in exterminating angel,
right now I'm in the house and I'm in the cathedral remove the right but do you think there is distinct thematic sequences or you think the whole thing aside from opening with this,
what is it a pop question it seems like a question why is he certainly then why will he was sure he's not allowed back.
The dialogue is you can't then you can't come back good we assume it's because he's fired not because what will be revealed is mystical but it starts with what we think is a question who's they distinct thematic sequences or is it more if there is no.
None of the sequences are asking Potter character questions even if with the scenes themselves a plot driven.
Yeah we need to be a bit technical if you think of,
the beginning middle and end of the story of a plot to story like a thriller for example you have an overarching question to call the centramatic question which is a block.
Will the detective discover the Killer for example,
and then you have the beginning question will Somewhere Over The Middle question and then the final question and the answer ok
is the first question the opening that question the second and third act do they
are they as a subset of the overall question so if you answer question opening question middle points question and you will get down to the overall question,
then if you go down into the for example the middle actor then say OK does the first sequence question of the first sequence of the middle at,
become part of the answer the second that question and in certain kinds of stories the answer is yes it's like her a mechanism little locked on a vertical to horizontal level deal deal deal deal for 10 when you think of other thematic.
Structure like exterminating angel there is no overarching question there is a question will they get out of the room.
Which is the middle at question what's? With that question does not inform the overall question and because there is no way we were.
Simile the individual sequence questions you don't exist but they're only ever do a scene questions they do not inform the central,
black question will they get out to the room nothing the characters do in the middle act contribute to the getting out of the room all the characters in black are interested in getting out of the room.
I just want to clarify this because there's one things I found most fascinating about all these characters are caught in an absurd it.
Cannot get out of this room but they're all aware of it and they're talking about it like I've got some lines dialogue he highlighted no one seems to behave logically,
write an adventure with a and they all the way there when they try to get out,
now where I can do the Groove use none of them then pursue on how do we get out of there in as not discuss.
Which is bizarre but that's going to the point of the movie but they are all.
Is it Desire.
Maybe but I think it's bizarre because it's how would I as an audience member act in that.
Another way another way of saying what you just said is none of them so what do we do I watch the plot what do we do how to behave.
Ok correct and it stopped because they just assume we can't get out.
What I find fascinating about the film is the dro acting in a very grounded relatable normal way in this very absurd.
Situation and that's where a lot of the comp.
How come the these people seem like normal people don't do what normal people do,
that's the question goodwill is interested in you asking how come these bourgeoisie seem like the normal people but when you put them in a situation when they're action is necessary they refuse to act
well they're refusing to contemplate the right of what the right kind of action might be the answer is
because they're bourgeoisie because if they did answer that acting that way they would find out things them and I want to find out that would not allow them to live in the way they like to live,
you know said that kind of what's the matter why did the bourgeoisie become revolutionaries is because if they become revolutionaries they can't be bourgeoisie and they like me bourgeoisie because they privilege,
two kinds of saying why don't they question the boundaries of that world thematic question you know these characters exploring the question,
you come to this conclusion from watching the story if you stick with it you might walk out but if you think whether you say what's going on here why are these people asking me any questions why they doing anything why why why they say complacent and then you gonna go OK
what is been well doing and this is the point when you get this to matakana structuring very quickly if it works you get the orders to the question what is a filmmaker trying to do.
This is what I think is the most important thing about thematic structuring,
is it take to what is directly to that question which is mostly when you watch a plot and character in a story you lost in the story that it works out your your complete a compound and your pulled in the store when you're watching characters on the,
the plot and you're not asking the question until maybe later when you're walking home what kind of filmmaker is this what kind of storyteller is why we know what it is really interested in your lost in the story in these kind of stories.
You deliberately keep in the audience away from those kinds of things you're not interested in plant carrot complexity and very much you all you have to do is compellent keep watching which is the microstructuring,
compels you and to keep watching and then because you're not getting the big Ole is you start asking those questions yourself because still isn't giving you those quest.
What is the object of these characters you don't have to question why are these characters not given an object and then you very quick another question.
Why are you doing this why so she'll let it why am I watching it what and what am I watching and then and then you get to go so so assume the person making the stories intelligent,
and have some to say them what is it he trying to tell me,
that's where you need to be that's what somatic stuff it's only that's what you know what is the deeper idea that drives the story you're actually essentially house in question what is the theme of,
if you had said what is the theme of the exterminating angel it is the complacent destructiveness of the bourgeoisie,
that's what the film is really about and watching this film as you watch it he's trying to make you ask that question,
where is he's not actually fundamentally entertaining you or is entertaining as much as the minimal amount of time it necessary to make you ask those,
and in order to ask those questions you have to take away strip out the plot and character complexity because if there was complexity that was what you be coming through.
One of the things that sets us apart from Love Actually.
How do you think he's doing the bare minimum to keep you entertained in the moment.
And because of that because of the lack of any overarching questions I think you are asking what is this all about,
continually throw out from Elise from the first act kind of Resolution when they realise that they can't get out of the room from then onwards you are constantly asking that question because you're only being kept in moment to moment so I've got some.
Some moment it does a lot of that heavy micro flooding in actually the first date just to keep you.
In the film before you realise what their there they're real estate service problem is there's two moment that I've highlighted is there's one moment where.
Two men start doing hand gestures to each other like some secret coded hand signals.
Lakemba Masonic.
Actually I read it as a Masonic.
And there is some reference to Masonic self later on someone goes to the archway that they can't get through and like that screaming the masonic call for help through it and it's explained to you but.
It is never returned and then the character did exactly like the saviour of the old film that gets them out of the Valkyrie character.
Early on in the film she picked up a glass and Rose it through the window.
I don't know Point Break at that point as an audience you go why did she throw that through the window no one comment on it no one.
Did you go shooting woman Beeline for her.
And is another point where a woman opens a person as a dead bird inside right what it is doing in that first sequences constantly just make him go what the hell is going on,
to make you lean forward to make you engage intellectually with the mood to keep you going it then doesn't need to be quite so micro flooded,
once you understand what the movie is about because there's kind of other things that a compelling you in sustaining.
But is working so hard the difference between this and Love Actually is it is no pay off those questions right there it is just asking those questions just to keep you engaged in the moment.
Adam wants that you're engaged in the next moment it doesn't care but because as you say the point of being well as trying to make it I don't.
I want you to ask questions about what this film is about not who these characters are what they want.
Imagine that you go to an exhibition of data up and you see you think the shops are a furry urinal,
you know that famous art piece where you go you going to sing on the shirt I think it is it I think it's Edition Bookshop.
The urinal urinal yeah yeah that's the shot dead.
How do you say merry the case you go and use it to you look at as urinal but it's not a race urinal but it isn't,
so it's going to be this it is something that isn't something at the same time and you look and they say k what's that for,
what's what's doing the artist is making you notice that is something that is familiar that is up same time not familiar and then he's hoping hoping to see you do something it's I think about,
this thing and what it means ok this,
film is both a narrative story and not a narrative story please all the games of narrative as character the situation things happen,
but that when they should be doing some things like asking why is this happening exploring you know whenever they don't do that and the order says exactly same as you look at your own LEGO if they say they go what am I supposed to make of this.
And that's where his has you because you're good question now what's the answer no that's not a question lot of films are interested in it shouldn't telling a story
this is a different Lisa thematic where the filmmaker saying
there's something I want you to think about in order to make you think about have to show you a story but only to a certain extent and then I have to take away the things you expect in the story to create of a vacuum in which you can fill,
because it is gonna make any sense you have to contribute,
because I'm not giving you everything going to try to vacuum and going to technique and then you'll go what I do about this how do I what am I thinking what's going on who are these suddenly they give you a much more active
much more it's much more interactive discussion and a dialogue and then you finally if you want to stay with it you go I get it the other thing to remember.
Is it comes out of a storytelling traditional Europe most of the most interesting thematic filmmakers come out of traditions will be explicit and open about what you think about the world is very often going to get you,
it's a lot of this kind of filmmaking this is stealing and it's not exactly this isn't even matter for this
because I'm a total douche was a storytelling of a kind work the audience is very familiar with the idea of what the thing is about is not on the surface,
do you have to engage and think about it a little in order to work out what it's about know when you are in a can of three inverted commas
artistic culture where you can say what you like then sometimes these kind of story then let me know when you want to say something just say it this kind of filmmaking feels much more subversive,
and it feels much more it interesting my show this when two people some people are offended by their innocence they they really
but I'm just not like it I don't get it they can't feel offended back to be hostile to that's really interesting because they're just in some ways they're not used to.
Often seen enough of this kind of work to understand that it comes from particular kind of place and then I practiced in reading it so they feel hostile because of some sense they think it makes them feel stupid.
I understand that it's about something but they have no idea what it is Dylan so this line something happening here but you don't know what it is do you Mr Jones that's the feeling that some people watch the film get because they're not used to this got a story telling,
they don't understand it but they know it's doing something but I don't have to wonder.
I think that's partly because of how tightly the sequences are structured in this the metaphor I would use this what makes Salvador Dali and Renee grey I can't say.
It's the combination of incredibly precise realistic technique as painted with his absurdist images you look in a Salvador Dali and you like this is almost photo realistic,
what the fuck am I looking at and it's the contradiction the tension the makes you question it,
where is I don't think you have back pain not the Jackson Pollock does not have technique but it's not in doodly presenting itself as realistic painting so you don't look at Jackson Jackson Pollock hunting for intellectual meaning in the same way that I think you do it,
Dolly what I'm trying to say is with exterminating angel is the technique the Precision of a narrative writing on a micro level.
Allows you to all on some some purchasable triggers this idea that this is meant to be mean something I can't work it out there for I'm.
Offended either I'm I'm chewing my me for my meal or I'm not but it's not being you know it deconstructed like he's in a gander,
pita bread in a toaster and I have to cook it for yourself it's like there is combinations there and use an example.
Is genre example but I actually did get out in the middle sequence when they're having a new scene.
Ms of the dinner party with build the bingo and all that kind of there is it it seems leave it more easily,
maybe it's a female character secrets factory something because at that point of the filmed when he's going around talking to everyone it's not o'clock question,
until he's been told to get out it's actually like that's the time the film The saying this is what the film is about.
Excerpts
Right and it's almost like chosen to insert the thematic sequence at the beginning of the thematic sequence isn't it the end anymore.
Right in the middle.
It's in the middle the original ending of get out with him getting arrested and going to jail.
Right I may change that and maybe that was almost maybe that original denouement was meant to be there.
Yeah whatever I meant to push away before I can come from my drunk ancestors.
And now but they didn't mean that because it was in the middle and he said maybe that's a lot of things actually more upfront or more Central.
I think what you're putting your finger on is exactly what elevates get out is that Jordan Peele had the wherewithal to say I'm going to.
Stop the plot visitor centre just having a garden party and what is what is the pot question there is no pop question other than.
What the fuck is going on.
There's no sort of character question either other than the broad like if you take it down right into the micro what is it like to be a black person in a white upstate New York garden.
That's all my systematic carrot question.
And it very much does lifts takes the photo of all those pedals to make you go what is this film yeah and that's a really good.
Really about it that's what's great we kind of take away the theme is going to come up.
Go make some one of my previous episodes and thesis is where we didn't have so where we looked about where.
Protagonist with separate to the main character where they were there were characters who were driving the plot of the story and then there were characters it was really what the story was about and we looked at sicario.
Where the main character main perspective Carrick really almost observation.
Enforces you ask.
Exactly and that's what I'm just realising now is that point where there's that whole sequence with the Benicio del Toro character the film just leaves the plant uses a new protagonist and goes on a whole new thing with an is very tightly plotted it's a thriller.
Sequence where he is infiltrating by himself.
Head of a Mexican cartel to execute the head of the cartel and his fam.
Mediaeval Knights so tightly plotted and there's so much character questions that the fact that sequence is.
Chosen a whole new protagonist is forcing you to as an order is meant to go.
This is what the film is about it is I only just realised now they're making that decision to change protagonist just for a seat.
Makes you go this is what the films about it makes you pay attention to at sequins in a very different way to the way you've been engaging with.
Because you undercutting as well the Primacy of the single protagonist you been.
But I think maybe this is a man in town in a transition to apocalypse in the same way that they could be Platt pop character.
Hybrid sequences and I suggested maybe get out his theme cartoon even is imagistic,
and thematic I would think of this cause that's what Apocalypse Now kind if you would like to me it felt as much about the sensation as the intellectual SP.
Which is different from exterminating Angel which to me was an anaesthetic or sensation experienced it was an intellectual one but Apocalypse Now I really was like.
Buck.
Excerpts
Apocalypse Now Sydney 1969 during the Vietnam War,
but the water means be going on for a long time it's special forces colonel,
movie quotes is gone missing we don't real we don't actually learn about that until kind of the inciting incident our point of view character is Captain Willard,
who is basically open with him in apartment doing fucking crazy Saigon always Saigon
until his pull into a shower and then we'll be in front of Han Solo and a bite to animates Harrison forwards in this in a very early roll and they tell him about this Colonel his methods of have gone.
Too far even for United States Army right and watching in Vietnam anything you seen because it keeps on cutting you listen to this story about Kurtz basically saying we're going to kill them all.
Toy shops in the food that they're eating at lunch the opulence almost like exterminating angel the boys wavy of the army at this point,
eating a delicious food of prawns and all that well they're basically giving we would a mission it it's Thriller Territory you need to go in deep into enemy Territory find journal cards and kill him for us.
Excerpts
Specific sequence in Apocalypse Now which is the point in our attention to which is the sequence weather going up river and there's a December they get off and they they they call run the jungle I get attacked by tiger think about going in the jungle.
How does a tiger and it's quite funny sequence my Sony the rise of tiger tiger and they run back to the boat Hill dive in the boat on the go on the boat is late,
machine guarding the jungle because he thinks there's no vietcong there any Factor all terrified of a tiger and they were talking about it was that is a fucking tiger and then they just like the boat files open the Zoom off,
get ascended that level 7 the question if you like it that's pretty sequences you know their vietcong in the jungle announces know their eyes there's a tiger that's going to plot at sea,
I come around the band so you don't you give a little section and is a bit more voice over him talking about Curtin.
Excerpts
Hey, to corner of the back of the river and send me there's a light light and sound that for me the beginning of this sequence the sequence is they at their wives and it's basically American base on the right side of the river and they go out and it's a kind of Mayhem.
They go to supply depot hundreds of motorbikes,
of course completely useless the jungle the new motorbike still in there cellophane wrapping that they're there and I'm just like stores you don't know everything I'm not a bitch is of any use,
because the motorbikes in the jungle there's no roads you know they're in the middle of nowhere and stuff and one of the guys on the boat want some petrol and.
Excerpts
Undergo I apologize that I'll give you those tickets for the show only gives will not about the Scotch and then you can wander around and then they go there's a show and go to the show and then it's the Playboy bunnies come down.
Helicopter really famous Susie Q is playing on the thing on the back of the plane my buddy dancing with Rifles and it's actualising the weapons has lots of you.
However cowboy and a picture of you.
Well I kinda stuff on the pistols in everything and the guys were going crazy I was watching and he's had drinking Ascot Chinese has no object in the guys I'll just come over in the,
Playboy bunny jump on the hanging in there you know they will shoot off and then the next thing you know the boats going back at river in the back on the river again that sequence hamisa thematic sequence what's the question there is no Park West.
It is not will I get the inner will I get the fuel at sunset immediately try again little micro questions will they watch the show.
Feverfew is not I'm going to turn it no point did you go eat dinner last Jedi late because I run out of fuel ok.
Section 32 OK what is the clock? I stop at the river not after I don't want anything they didn't even know it was that there were headed to this place,
yes please show me the corner of abandoned desert places so they go with it's get off and they get off and stuff happens and they finish their and they get back on and then go again,
I know you so they can what's that sequence for,
because it doesn't matter supply it does not fold Willows character I should previously have another voice over right way things might purchase them so that was much more about if a woman is character
performer character the guys on the boat they just like Nice Guy's in one of a good time I don't want to die that's what they've been all the way through and nothing
sequence changes that there's lots of stuff going on but not as any significance in Sons of my story yet we pulled in because it's a show at this musical you know things have,
thematic seek with me so what's it for again take away the character journey which isn't that in that sings take away the question there is a flight question what happens new kind of watch it and you go.
American presence in Vietnam with insane.
That's what you do you watch and you gotta go home to play this to agree with this is just a sequence Hotham had seen the film,
ok and I said to them I get what's this mean and they just going to win.
Bonkers the whole thing is idiotic it is making you think this is the American story about now too much too much money,
huge military is incredibly incredibly equip over equipped and what is doing is pointless if you.
And that is in Stark contrast to Kurt's a speech about cutting off the arms of the kids that were inoculated in polio and the determination of yet gone and it's it is the contract.
Not to miss out if it's any you basic instructor false word with Rio full swirl with reassuring lies and narrative.
That's what I think you know that these got a filmmaker's are out there at the he just say the world is not it if you think the world is simply understood,
can you make me a basic mistaken as an anarchist I think the political Point about that is if you if you distract yourself with narrative meanwhile the world is being stolen from you.
Those by those in power.
So we've talked about previously on episodes about theme about worldview the idea that there is a worldview,
of the Witch Is inherently artist right or the right at big we've got a view of how the world works everyone has a weather I think there's some conscious or not there is a Wells you that they create with in the world and then there's the world view of the individual
characters and I think what is interesting about exterminating Angel is you can view it,
through that land that there is a world view of Bruno fiannaca Springer.
Good well done well.
I've missed to be so.
Mitsubishi school movies.
Louis there is the worldview his worldview about The Anarchist in the bourgeoisie and there is there worldview.
Of 23 the world did they win and they act appropriately and the theme in the audience is.
Conflict of a tension between those two thanks.
I'm so there is a possibility Love Actually there is a worldview of that which is life very something in that which is like is meaningful and love is what gives life me.
Corey can also be destructive but it's an exploration of what love means within that very small.
Am I come and you know this again hooks us into Apocalypse Now because I think there is the world your Francis Ford Coppola about what the world will Warriors vs worldview is an absolute Central Motif in that field.
Excerpts
And the welfare of all the other characters almost every little thing yet episode of moment is exploring not just a particular part of that world but we get to meet characters and have moments where they explain exactly how they think Vietnam.
And Vietnam at that point is a because it's the only world we ever see we never leave Vietnam until he kind of becomes a standing for the world at large.
The only other point I want to make a bow Apocalypse Now here we got this Redcliffe sequence it is a thematic sequence because it's such a clip craft tool I'm going to remove all the coach questions from Uber pop questions is going to prompt you to ask.
Realise or feel this is what the film is about.
I think the structure over all the pockets now does also lend itself to this because it so episodic in nature minutes setting up a block question that will sustain through all these through this episodic structure.
Which is you need to find Kurtz I need to fill shoes is not I mean and then it's a series of vignettes down the river like the whole structure at the filming then going on this little.
Zero movie.
He's a fucking rude.
No Centrelink is only gonna get it does have a sad dramatic question because a party question will will it kill Captain Kirk so can I go.
Anything which is when I get there I don't know what I'll I work out what I do when I get.
But the fact that it is a road movie the fact that it is episodic in nature,
allows it to take those sequences and decide is just give me a picture of this weekend so just give me a character driven sequences this going to be a thematic sequence it sets it's narrative structures sets the audience up and to.
To be delivered a message because it's not like each of those individual sequences you could always lift any of them out of the movie and you just wouldn't notice.
It's interesting to if you think about it I'm into a red meat is ready a very good very good point the point about a road movie them deeper meaning of thematically,
thematic meaning of a really generally speaking the journey is more important in the Arrival that's kind of what I wrote me because I said it's what you learn on the journey that really matters not so much getting to a destination,
any gas stations in resolve the story but actually it's what you learn along the way and those things that you learn how to do agree sometimes at 2 things things that you must do,
send there a things that you must understand and then there are deeper truth that you must acknowledge a plot character and thematic sequences,
you are so there is no wonder if it'll make this intelligent,
that you know you're going to get a mixture of sequences we should dealing with the right way to behave the right to act the right way to think and understand and the right things to acknowledge to be true,
that's kind of what's going on the journey FIFA Willa.
And I think what is interesting about this film in comparison to both Love Actually and exterminating angel is a film has sequences that I have reported,
and it has sequences 30 more character and there is sequences that I'm automatic.
So this is something that steamatic it's got the incredible kind of montage of the explosions in the voice over.
Excerpts
And it's interesting that both Love Actually an Apocalypse Now open with voice over Terrence Malick does it as well it's almost voiceover says force you to consider from the very beginning what does this all mean.
Most opening voice overs everyday sci-fi exposition all day like what is this fancy word.
What is the film progresses becomes increasingly.
Ministry of the film captivates you right and I mention this imagistic in this is a Hard Thing to reticulating.
Excerpts
Cinematography is so sensory it's about the sound design shop as ready as much as sensory experience as it isn't intellectual 10 moments like Kilgore speech which is a moment of this is what the film is about.
But there is so many little journeys along the way that it is episode it is a road movie it is we milk call go we have this action sequence we go have the moment in the in the jungle on me find,
the Playmates bed and you see all the car in Geelong Foreshore painting.
All the smoke makes you just constantly reflect upon what you're saying and then they get the arse end of the world.
Excerpts
Almost the reason I'm jumping to that that feel the net potted moment doesn't it right where it's like he goes to find the commanding officer that the plum question.
And then the pot questions refute well it's answered in the sense that there is no commanding officer.
Excerpts
Right it's almost.
Nothing makes sense there is no order.
Nothing makes sense there is no order here right because it's answer you in a way that we're not expected it to that little secrets about the bridge.
And the comment about we build the bridge so I can blow it up so wet and then we build it again for the Generals can say the road is open and gives us a moment of reflection about what does this all mean which is,
the futility of it all that's the thing again if he matter.
Same it's almost like the plot structure of it which is fine the commanding officer allows it to become thematic because it's answered in a way.
We don't expect cos it's not like the commanding officers dead or here is the commanding officer it's actually there.
Isn't one there is no water.
Excerpts
Where I kind of want to do some contracts and comparisons is this isn't like Thin Red Line where.
The aesthetic narrative structure the movies deliberately keeping the audience.
One step back to Connor question the theme of the movie late there are lots of sequences of a pocket now what you are very family like in the sequence and there is an overarching,
what question was there isn't in Thin Red Line for example but the fact that it is so episodic so vinyet it.
And none of these sequences seem to be necessary to go into the next sequence is not like will I just learning something that he needs to use in the next sequence all the debt.
Not fighting the diamond that we were going to feel really get the fuel and then go to the fuel to get the map and then we go to that and the commanding officer tells agent refusal to answer that stuff he goes. But you need to see if he wants to find out what codes,
supposedly fucking stumbles on to it.
But the structure the movie is forcing an audience ago what is this about.
Because there is a can it's not incremental knowledge that he doesn't learn one thing and then move on my phone tonight it's more like,
spending time in that place makes you realise something I just really like you say every now and then you have a big is very similar to what people say the war is like you know you have a moment of intense activity we are absolutely in the moment in York and extremely excited,
and all you're thinking about is about 3 seconds and then there are moments where you're much more reflective when nothing much is happening,
and you and you look around and you know the boat drifts at River and people at Albury quiet on me know you got the voice over and it's like and the voice over isn't telling you very much just more like,
meditations on the state of mind Willard meditations on on curtain but it's not good directing you very much and I guess that fluffy stuff falls away,
want to come for know what you come out of the but you know the Valkyrie attack and you come into everything I've ever you start thinking.
What must it be like to be there what Messina water and you your mind starts drifting and you're not actually even Italian the film anymore
you're kind of your kind of watching yourself watch a film and thinking about the notion of war sh1 again looks completely deliver it and how you take away those going to planks and narrative.
Push you forward into what happens next what happens next what happens next Wednesday question people's eye surgeon,
you know you take away that question and you take away 2 degree the question of who are these people because you're not really exploring that then you have to win the backs question. It's what does it mean.
She takes you to the theme and that's it on again.
It's it's it's unlike Bidwell you make it whole story a constructor on an ocean how do I get you anything about the theme here it's more about Lismore episodic like a real movie like red movie offer nietrzymanie red movies,
part of the way of that journey is understanding what is it mean you know someone on a journey goes how do I get to where I'm going,
who am I with and if it's a long journey you can't go who am I what does you know you become reflective,
that's you just mimicking assumption the structural member can the actual process of going on a long journey you are thinking about the meaning of things is interesting if you think about.
This way of thinking about a story and you compare it for example to know she'll be Hero's journey which is an Anderson question driving to get it when you're not allowed to think too much for who you are,
because you want the quest you don't have an answer when you have a lovely tight journeying structure we have Harrelson,
get all these going to be like this who magilton,
27 different characters all three different functions that means you can never be more than 2 minutes in minutes away from a function so you can never actually think deeply about anything because you gotta figure out the next function which is what that stuff is about it's not thinking
that's the web app not allowing the characters think too much and this is what you know this American filmmakers doing is taking you know Hero's journey I'm basically,
not a bank any of the rules about how you do this kind of hero each I'm sure there someone internet A Hero's journey nice apocalypse every beat manually but it's not
he's basically saying things on straight forward this is the only time experience is not a straightforward thing it didn't have a simple meaning,
you know there was a clear action any point there's one right thing to do their number possible things you could do some which are right so I'm which are wrong so I'm which neither,
and it's it's it's the whole if you want to tell that story you can't have a simple narrative structure,
you can't have a platinum structure because you won't be able to get the level complexity of understanding you have to have a.
Theme to distract you because you're exploring all of those things so different things have to explore different areas you must if you looking for that kind of store.
I wonder if it we're going to send impact on televised storytelling in binge.
Culture Kings previously where you had cause your pores to wait a week so the the episode didn't feel.
The need to meet you at the end of that episode,
go into the next episode that was not the Driving Force kissing Bindi Cole to the idea is like we need to end an episode making you want to watch the next episode where is this is like yes it does make you wonder that cause it's about 15 you across the week but,
I think the dry the overall drive is to make you reflect what was that episode about.
You know it is fascinating because yeah I washed the pockets now and watch the original cut.
Tyrepower studies like a fall apart mini series right like it's like a bbc's like collateral which I watched earlier in the year but I don't think any if you put apocalypse out now as I fall apart.
Series no one would probably fucking finished watching it right the drop off like the fact that I've got to captivated audience is part of being so hypnotic you were like the characters in exterminating angel it's like I could go to bed.
Here now right.
Is why this is why Cinemas going to make a come but you know the moment everything but TV and TV and TV TV drama you know.
When you have a lot of Cinema eventually you would you mind about you know when you have one and one up for me have lots of male characters you mind them out,
this thing about this before is about female characters no they're not male not just that there's a female because everything itself but another really fascinating about female characters they don't do it male characters do,
I'm a bit sick because all the writers in the world have done all the possible variations and all their reactions at Mount character do in any given situation
so what's happening with Ben stuff now is that really a new phone because we haven't had it for ages and so suddenly me up the TV serial comes back as only Ben's comes and,
do we mine out as we do and I'll catch u e x exhaust everything and so then someone's going to go you know you can get the cinema 4 hours and watch a film,
I think that people go you know is it almost unbearable you could do that these days in 3 years there will be a really successful for us.
Because.
I think a lot of the stuff has to do with pacing I think they'll often be in highly Potter films the decision to take the foot off the gas to slow the pace down just the Orient the the audience around what,
the film is trying to say or.
Quit or ask out to questions or what have you and so in those circumstances I imagine it's the pacing it was not worth taking the foot off the pedal to to ask a question that he'd already,
been answered where is in the bedroom it's Ave I think it's a fascinating decision about how the what is already a slow paced film about when they.
Put their foot on and off the pad on when I tell you about the time to him out plot question is really.
Intensity coming from intensity series in intensity in and we bought it up beginning and I think we'll go into it because.
Neither exterminating angel or Apocalypse Now have intensity dialogue don't get dialogue intensity like a naked do you think.
I wouldn't agree with that I think I think I think,
exterminating angel is a very light I'm in festival $2 is quite lonely what's really interesting about it is how quickly basically it's like a drawing room drama is it theatrical your characters the way that works
big section the opening is characters walk down the front of stage talk together for two or three lines and then walk back stage and another character walk forward and does it goes on and on and on so whilst the interview a dollar blinds that may not be themselves really exciting,
you're very dynamic movement of characters across the stage literally it's like
one card comes up under stage said something someone else then he walks off and she comes in then he walks off and she comes in and she comes in and he knows backwards and forwards and it's so this and you're you're following like 5 or 6 separate conversation,
would you see Extracts over then they go backstage in the carrying on but you come back into this conversation so you're it's it's it's not so much for the dialogue itself is spike you like a naked,
but you've basically got 7 or 8 lines of dialogue going over like a 15-20 minute. Which you and it's a very active and dynamic in the way that's not.
Love Actually has an intensity by independent so many stories right and you're keeping track of them and I would argue that Apocalypse Now has kind of late for a lot of it is sensory intensity like the imagery in the sound and the music right.
And that what I think it says studying about 30 cause I'm still trying out.
Sorry just a come in that sense of imagery that's going back to Qatar Cruskits we said what I got she was saying and I thought we talked about was that there is a sum sum sum meaning that's beyond as well logic and intellect understanding and I think that imagery,
is in in pockets now it is exactly the same thing between how the jungle looks and then the sense of it is that there is edge cutter put in characters
I guess the background that they don't understand,
how do you spell and we can't we don't understand what the as it was a image system means but we understand that the film kind of shows you what kind of a world where there's a meaning beyond our understanding and we're very well these characters kind of against that background.
We don't fully understand and neither do they and it's very deliveries in some sunset images logic of,
Apocalypse Now does relate to the way that talk Oscar would have thought about me just as much.
I'm getting too is that it seems to me you've got incredibly powerful,
imagery and the third time still for me know it's pretty fresh and I'm still processing it but it seems like there is a thematic intensity into it like it's actually the intensity is all about what is this about a fine Kurtz person.
Hawks tickets right and pretty much Kurt's works out straight away is there to kill me.
Excerpts
It's not about the piloting politicking it's not Game of Thrones in that sequence.
But it is complete between two worldviews because what will I I mean like I said you seen it yesterday I seen it 10 years ago with one of the few things that sticks with me is kurtz's monologue.
Excerpts
You get very much what kurtz's point of view is Curtis almost feels resigned to the fact that he's going to be assassinated by Willard yet.
But he's offering will at his point of you too kind of offering Willow with a dramatic choice to either accept my point of view or continue with the worldview that you.
I came here with in terms of your mission and what you're representing and so it does feel hugely the matter.
Excerpts
2/3 seconds is almost pure leaving the park question and will him kill him a willy not.
I cannot I would say that I'm I'm I'm there is there is there is a live clock question that is all the way through which is will he kill him,
Brazilian student me know what he does and I think there's a life plot question which is Will Willard understand who Kurts really is and how we came to be like this,
maybe I should say that is a Blog question but I think both those things I don't know very leisurely why I didn't race to do either of those things and I think it's quite clear that person I used a nose that what is there to do in and accepting of it,
and he knows it will happen and because those questions again I very lazily,
explored in some sense I'm lazy an interpreter sensitive that's the way the way that the filmmakers chosen to do it,
because we're not racing through again it's like you know this cracks that start to a better and after that the thing comes up so I wouldn't say it's thematic and it's at legal centres not driven by thematic question,
how did the plunket question still alive but I do think because they're so slow this a leisurely the water all ours is the theme it's not a story,
that is not a way of storytelling that's afraid,
to slow things right down so again do you want to have to race to work out what's going on there's no point in which you go how to understand this it's quite clear all the way through and it's quite good and characters what's going on so it gives you the space to think of one level down now that we know what's going on,
you know what do these people understand how their evolving slowly then we can ask the deeper questions right what's this really about.
Given that we see you so much to magic stuff before which has be instructed to magically then you know I think I'll we are now reading the world and it got a complex way,
because the the weather stories been told to it allows us to understand when are we been looking at story thematically because it's been given to us that way I don't care at random flights enough time we get to the end we are if we're in it and a very sophisticated way to Janice about,
he's taught the viewer is it worthy of the review of the film to ask the question what is the deeper meaning here.
The way to his told a story has made that question live a legitimate frequently so by the time you come to the end that do it is asking what's happening who is it happening to and what's the deeper meaning here,
in a way that a faster paced story wouldn't allow that that kind of reading of the story it happened.
Intercutting of the ritual slaughter of the car with the killing of Kurt you are like the ducks position forces you to ask a question of why am I being shown this wide is the meaning behind.
When it's like you're in Don't Look Now like they usually famous sequence where you're indicating the couple having sex with them getting ready.
Get to go out together.
To go out the fat dude that is being juxtaposed forces you to ask me why am I why is mean jokes please what does this mean I mean obviously,
I like going to editorial and directorial skills and in film story that you can write that on the page as well.
How to Alan Scott here at that film if you decide to scrap it's not actually don't know you know that they did that in the edit suite I'm sure they did a lot of it but if you'd be able to Scott scripts and other things.
I'm sure you the specifics of it to me and it's weird but the idea probably came to the writing.
But in terms of this is kind of links it to pacing and Away late when you asking less plot questions you slowing down what the intensity pace of the film is forcing as you say about team that is bringing audience question.
I think the intensity might come from that feeling when does he comes from how intensely you pulled into the story,
you don't mistake as with intensity the storytelling from the fact that if you are now,
you know he's got you the filmmaker's got you you're asking me deeper questions if you are doing exactly what he wants you to do with it so I don't understand this what's it got to do with me what's it got to do with,
you know my understanding of the way the world works what's it got to do with the American intervention in Vietnam how do I how do I mean,
ok we should not a question you normally you know you with a script in develop meeting in the summer session when I got to this point in the script I thought about what does it all mean that's a criticism.
Actually you know what wasn't it clear you weren't you were actively asking what does it mean we have to rewrite the section,
get over here it's actually that's where we where he wants you,
an an an an intense do you feel at the end is because unlike most stories where u got plot and character is it worth buying anyway you know High volume you've also got theme working at high intensity and see you get a chance of text when complexity,
but you know you got to work really hard to balance all these different things in your mind the characters and the deeper meanings and the residences and the Emmy system,
which is you know still apply of course all the way through out and in and in sensory overload of it all I need feels like a ruckus a really intense experience at the end of the story with exactly where that and you're struggling is it worth it,
maintain your equilibrium in the face of all this information and and and you know asking deep questions and you come out and it's like one of those films you walk out if you work for you,
look at the cinema what's the street you can't talk for 5 minutes.
Excerpts
I'm coming back to decide you eat my little observation about endings it gives you after his kill goats music and sound,
characters kind of the pot question is resolved the garage question resolved he walks out holding,
curtains riding out covered in like blood and they all came about him in there again it's forcing you to ask the question what is this I mean,
it is gives you that moment at the end of the string like a slight thing an obvious thing but something bit in almost all our,
what almost whatever genre you can ride you can give the audience find ways of giving the audience those moments of reflective it in terms of.
You know and.
Coming back to the ring if he misses it's just an anecdote better pay as a couple different versions of the end credits and there was a version on my blazer desk where they had just explosions over the end,
credits right and people were feeling,
that the air strike actually happened at the air strike that his mate tries to call in actually happened at this deal,
generating I'm looking for meeting so intradiscal basically b-roll footage you had of her of explosion he was using a text behind me and credit they were interpreting on a female on a narrative level,
and he ends up now it's just black because it's like I won't know the film is over no more he wants it if coloured.
Don't like it.
Well I tried.
Meaning.
Meaning in texting,
think about how audiences are actually back to that we balance between sometimes like they're hungry and we need to feed them up you don't want to spend like that whole dance you have with the audiences so complex as a.
Pretty sure I have all your just wants always to hunt for me it's a hunt for as well plot there were there was going to be the easy answer first wasn't me it was about what happened was happening.
Can I go for the air strike actually have a move on the shit out cats.
I know what to get you to think you have to take that away that's appointments what would arise that's what these filmmakers all understand you take that away,
nothing is you know the meaning of the action doesn't mean anything Who The Carousel doesn't want you take that stuff away the new one is ok so what is it really about and that you know you have to and what were saying it's a constructed moment.
You know what the thematic thinking you've got to take the stuff away in order to allow the audience to do
go deeper if you keep everything the plot in The carrot on Surface always doesn't have to go deeper to enjoy the story.
Anyway it highlights the film The by refusing to really an supply questions they film forces you go theme a text because he kind of speaks to base and you know he's been instructed to do the Easter egg.
Vinnies head cut off in situations like that plot line is fucking dead but it's not.
Abandoned deliberately abandoned because it's not about whether or not they're going to need pump Curtis you know quote unquote Army.
To moving in the bedroom.
In the bedroom set I also think like Manchester by the Sea you kind of small New England late definitely East Coast main ok main.
Fishing town it's about a,
fan light to middle class a doctor in a Anna singing teacher to local high school and their college age son,
that's the story revolves around them he is dating a woman who separated from her husband who has two small children she is separated from husband because he is abusive and becomes important to the plot that he's.
Kind of like it's not aristocracy but he's there is the son of the.
Canning Plant in the town so he's got the most power and resources in economics and all that kind of stuff.
The son of this couple ends up getting murdered by the abusive ex has.
Killed it's appointment is killed we don't know whether it's manslaughter.
Not not to the audience.
We never see it we never actually see what happens.
Excerpts
It's only at the point of the sunset that you really get an idea that the films about their parents,
because it's finally where the film chooses a selective point of view of experiencing the parents grief and it then stays with the parents for an awfully long time I got the time is it the sun is only killed.
This is a fashion experience from because I watched the film.
I had I saw it on theatrical release really enjoyed it but this I've come this is the first time I've Revisited what you and I'm watching it through this lens and I didn't realise that the so many days 40 minutes into the film.
That sucks.
40 minutes is a long.
Back I thought it was much from my memory the thing I thought as much earlier cause the film then spend a good hour after that,
just dealing with the parents grief,
all it is really about is will these two people ever recover from the grief and then the final 20 minutes of the film is this very kind of court Thriller sequence weather father,
kidnaps the Killer coconuts Richard Strauss.
End up meeting him bearing him out in the woods and coming back to his wife and will.
You then offers to make you breakfast be so hungry.
And we going to talk about this I'm gonna let this evenin Shoulda said I'm going to reserve it right for a bottle.
Remind me to say what is interesting about this found anything sequence related to 9:30 siematic Hills got very three different kinds of genre.
It opens almost like a rom com,
sorry wrong, a romantic me Nicholas Sparks room and there are people that I know reading review,
like them in him learning to love her children and the parents and approving a burden,
I'm a busy boyfriend you think maybe that sentence structure least that way and then boom and then the run pulled out of you anyway I'll fuck who we thought was the main character is not the main character.
What exactly exactly sang the first date the film is fascinating because it's been kind of equal time with Marisa Tomei with Nick Stahl separately trimester it
Marisa Tomei but with her then to each of the parents Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek and them together and then there was a group of all fam All 4 of them together so,
you not got a clear idea of his story this is until 40 minutes into the.
And then we realised it's the parent but it's still spinning Eagle time with Sissy Spacek and.
Commonwealth Ruth and Matt Central character for the Thriller sequel to the third phase of my point.
Very limited in comparison you know you've done it you've done it an hour and 40 minutes before you get to the.
I'm service Amy the three phases of the story is interesting is in juxtaposing in such a way bringing out a thing that has a merger this episode is it juxtaposition in itself for Thursday question,
of Weimar watching I know that there are people having read through a bunch o,
like letterbox reviews as I do after this when two people like this really episodic I'm just trying to do my dinner like.
And other people but I like this room is amazing and I love it it started off as an romance and ends in a thriller entering a wait and see when I can stay meaning angel.
Chose to be divisive because some people did not.
If I make it doesn't work for them that they sit there and go this is not the film I thought it was going to be the promise of it being a little spot for it.
If you ask a question the thematic question what is that story really about under the surface what is it really saying what would you be able to answer.
I'll see what I interesting I interpret the end the film about that about the roulette the marriage between Matt and root.
Right I actually think that is what the film essentially concerned with in the different phrases of there,
life is in the beginning it's about them if it's not as we see it between Frank and Natalie their relationship we do have moments we spend with them talking about,
yes son what they want for his future whether he will be with.
Maria you know she should ended he's got to go isn't he wants to do and study architecture Ivy League education about their love for him and then that's you just taken away and then it's about them,
overcoming grief and they don't talk to each other the whole second act is this incredible pop boiler where they don't talk to each other about what happened and blows up this amazing,
climactic scene where they argue with each other and hurt each other.
Excerpts
And then it ends with Matt killing rich.
The xx.
It actually comes back makes decision to show him coming back to his house and we've been to talk to him that she needed him to like that was a way that their relationship could possibly move forward anyway it's all about how people hurt each other.
When I saw this film in the cinema in London first time I saw it I came out of it and.
I just couldn't understand why it was so successful I'm it was being a friend in 2nd movie very small indie movie it was very successful has fantastic performances hope to see you space back in time with this in a really great,
I never say we're fine but I was come,
puzzled by it because for me it just I don't buy it I need it by then I don't buy now what I don't buy about it is that I think the middle out cos it's a lovely
complex study of the debilitating effect of grief about these you know this couple who basically I've invested everything in the sun and you know who's who.
3.2 l eat their own Lisa.
All of that is amazing I'm in a really is actually traffic so you get in so I have no prob the first day and even if you have a long and then your second actors actually extraordinary study and you got amazing formats isn't it really is physical emotional honesty and openness and believability to the one they cannot turn on each other there you know this
the point is there is no solution to this you know and they attack each other and and that and then you then you get this
idea that Tumblr this is wish I could just about by that maybe in your desperation,
to somehow find any kind of meaning in your life given that you some your now I drift because of what happened you pass it on to the idea,
if you kill this person then in some sense you make sense of what's happened you you either I think but.
The day of retribution these two intelligent Liberal people did they ever seriously think ok what we need to do is to
kill this guy because that
is kind of the natural justice of things there's a there's a there's been a Samsung unnatural the world is out of balance and so what we need to do is to put it back at about it so killing him will do that and I don't believe they would they think that'll be,
people have a word
if you think he's desperate and he's looking for meaning because his life has lost all meaning and so we fashions on to a series of actions it simply just give him something to do and some sense so that you know he can move forward because he's stuck
I don't really believe that if it's ok what he's trying to do is to make his wife happier
so there is some sense by doing something he lives up to some notion of how he should be at that moment and I can find I have no understanding of why he does it on the logical steps that
character goes through the think that's that's that's that's what it's that's reasonable even if he did.
The assassin by that I don't think killing him is going to make the money more happy than they were before and at the end they for this feeling of moving on.
And I don't buy that for a moment I was talking something about an American said you have to understand when that film came out.
You want to know what that form is successful you have to resign when it came out and it came out just after 9:11,
OK well you have a penis violent act that deprives people of something they thought was theirs and there is this urge to striker.
And get some kind of pay back there must be some action that can be taken this person said to me we have to sign about America is it the sensors in the you had to have an action whether or not that is justified
invading Iraq which had nothing to do with it is not the point the point is you have to act because that's just what you have to do that's in the American you know psyche,
presidents that we're going to do nothing,
you know where should we can't receive this is too complicated we can't there's no one you know whatever we're going to do nothing until until we know exactly where we are and that might take several years isn't that wouldn't have been possibly simply with not a possible action this film
articulated this woman told me articulated
atom crucial point in American history exactly emotional feelings that America had them must be some action that can be taken.
And that's if you see what this film is about this about a man you know it's not too bad he's about grief really but but what happens in the story is a man takes action because,
he has to take action.
I know you can't really this is no logical me no reason for it he just has to take action because that's the nature of the man they said that's what the film is about I can just about by that.
Paper at the end you've definitely got a feeling that you know things have changed and I don't believe for a moment.
That woman deprived of her son and her life would think,
killing the man who did it anyway makes that feeling better and I think anyone has been bereaved,
will feel the same thing you know it you know it makes me there isn't that logical connection between things if someone you know kills someone you love or someone runs over your child with a car ok,
no matter how many times you come up man up and put him in a mincing machine your child's not coming back,
actually most people always makes me all people in that situation this how often to get a sense of vengeance is not something that people tend to go for first and that situation,
because then there's a more involved in the sense of loss and you know that's what grief is really about in the middle of Summer such a wonderful,
expiration of grief I think the end of the film is fatuous I think it,
ATP cheapens what the middle of enemies and it makes me irritated to an Instagram.
Mrs episode about thematic intensity none of that irritation intensity OK so there's a few things we need to unpack you because we are broadly speaking about thing so I don't want to go to lost in the woods,
for me but interestingly the film is provoking this discussion because of almost in genre sequence.
To me the roof the big fight the Comrades the end of the second act is them speaking the hurting each other by speaking the truth of who they are the other person.
Excerpts
So route of cruises map of.
Laughing but wanting living vicariously through the sun.
And there and it called out the beginning right speaking it his friend of the one is like don't you want to beat that ass basically but you can see hear from look away is not a shame a little bit.
And then there's this in that first also the same way be there in bed with Matt and Amanda in bed and,
it's just habit it straight clear that he's juicing and because he's thinking of his son with.
Visit snowy goes in physics Natalie after son has died in this is weird almost flirtatious nature to their interaction there.
I dropped it at that way.
But I had seen it before so I think I interpreted through her understanding of how he was acting then he accuses her you are so forgiving.
Early he says what do you want me to do she does not,
believe that he is grieving cause he has not done anything to the whole second act is the lack of action there is mine you actually like him I'm packing swings and all that stuff and then that kicks off the second,
begins the third act which is difficult for a laugh very condensed timeline it's effectively overnight.
Excerpts
And high tension where he goes in kebabs.
Out of the character question where asking at this point is why is he doing your believing it's retribution but we sit there and we don't entirely believe the he is capable of doing it this is my interpretation.
And then when he comes back home.
His friend is like I got to get home my wife's going to come up going to be awake and I've knocked her out with pills which they've already very lonely Potter film but we know that she takes bills he's obviously giving her a sleeping pill.
He comes home Ruth is awake and I like which is the Thriller feeling and then she's like is it done any answer is yes and she's like great you must be so high.
Excerpts
I'll go and cat food and say my interpretation of that whole film liquicity DD15 that thing Crazy Duck positions why did he do it so hard to think but it's like I think maybe a character theme.
What's pussy dusk.
He wanted her to forgive him right because part of his that she blames him,
so what happened cause he would not hear loud her son he didn't support her son him he didn't support her in wanting her son to break up,
only they broken up earlier I didn't think this Australia going to move on very clear that he's uncomfortable with his actions but I think he's done it not out of this,
a sense of Revenge but he's wanting forgiveness from his wife or what.
Is interesting that is underwriting at question which is very different from what I think as are going to talk about which is the second act which is.
About the character question it's almost question which is how do you.
Overcome grief like that is not demonstrate of all coming back to these ideas like in fact they may be the reason that you find the film frustrating I don't want to argue about the front.
Obviously entitled did anything for Valley how do you overcome.
How could you ever dramatised something like overcoming grief.
Are you saying how did you ever dramatise it or how do you ever overcome it.
Well I think you face the challenges of writer would be if we doing this idea as a question is it it something is clearly demonstrated a question and he can be answering clearly demonstrated away.
Can I jump him hits I got to think so I agree with you 7 I think the third sequence is.
Thematic Lee asking completely different questions from the rest of the film and I also think that it's a logical from a character perspective but I also think that,
the riders and directive gone to great lengths to make that work and I want to come put my finger on the different points as to how I think it might be there make that work so.
In terms of the second act I think we were all the grid is the second act is an incredible,
piece of thematic workers it's a series of idiots it even fades up and fades down from Black across these moments of them experiencing grief that their individual scenes and they go getting longer and longer which is almost like the experience of,
coming out of grief where you can live life you can survive longer periods of moment without getting washed over by grief.
And it that they're so incredible that as you were talking about how the plot of what's happening with Richards trial.
That goes pop questions raise up late will he get bail will you not get bail will he be charged for murder will you be charged for manslaughter they they come up as questions but they're very quickly dealt with a spot questions and you just linger in,
what the characters are experiencing one of the pokemones that night hopefully we can plan except of it is Matt tracks down the prosecutors feeling so.
Unable to act in relation to getting Richard prosecuted that he track down the prosecutor at lunch and he's standing on the street.
Asking the prosecutor what's going on in the prosecutor saying there's nothing you can do and cinematically Matt sites focusing on the sounds of the prosecutors watch ticking in the coins jangling in his pocket is very much racing.
Current questions but it's the same character question over and over again it's will this couple ever come to terms with the loss of their,
sun so that whole second hand is a series of menu at swear that there's not really that many pop questions asked and there's not really that many was the same character question being after having ever again it's.
Allowing the audiences for Sandy orders to dwell in the moment I need to go what would it be like if I had had this experience and going back to that scene about.
They go away to a large effectively a lot A Country Lodge with their good friends we invited them away because his friends to friends I like how do we help with our friends in Greece right.
We just got to pretend to be normal I guess.
Do you know any got the different ways between Matt and dealing with grief Matt and his friends are talking about fishing.
No the chopping up wouldn't talk about real estate or something.
And wherein and Ruth and her friend talking about grand kit.
Will know that talking about it I called it here the fast pass soon cause they're talking about coming to an amusement park.
How to talk about the fast Park it's like so innocuous until.
That was used as you mention before the woman that the friends has a guess is no danger of us dying off and then suddenly clunk like those characters are both in the scene where the audience,
isn't nearly all of those scenes in the second actor structured like that where it's kind of like what are these characters doing in laundry life and then the impact of their sons death has brought in clunk in the middle of the scene and that generates the complex such as it is.
BNZ it so when there is the final the showdown between Ruth and Matt this huge argument and there's not going to be police and it's the little girl selling cookies and selling.
And it's like what's up I need to get a asks you for seizure after question of cause you like what the fuck is this same,
doing you in the answer his wife's just going on that's the difficulty of grief is that everyone else's life continues and they kind of expect you to move on life isn't willing.
Doesn't wait for you to go.
And that the interruption is so powerful because it's the comment and so all those vignettes from the same they're all very much them as individuals very rarely interacting and that's the point of that conflicts in all play except for maybe if the first time they were actually seeing them.
Talking about losing their son.
And in fact the fact that they're talking about it is the source of complete because they haven't been talking about it up until now and they're in the midst of that highly height and conflict and as you say the interrupted by the Candy salad,
and that doesn't ignore it he goes to the door he buys candy V.
It's it's such a wonderful moment of him like drowning himself back in that so she's able to go back into that conflict and achieve resolution from it and admit where is wrong but all that stuff.
Up until that point is about how is this couple going to deal with this grief.
And then moving into the next section Matt takes over he kidnaps Richard Strauss.
End up killing Richard Stratton bearing him and ends up back in the bedroom where I agree with this even is Sunny that final sequences asking.
Completely different a new questions that are not easily to define that a completely different from what the rest of the films been asking is asking films about late is violence an answer to,
grief is is a can you ever,
is action the answer is there is it is hard for me to define because it's so.
Those days of questions that you can you can say the 3rd is asking as it will because once you seen it I don't mind.
In the moment of it what happens is you go from middle like we're basically you know you say the plotting character is very important question for minimal
so you're kind of living with grief and redid the experience the second actors living with these characters who living with grief and Elizabeth a deeper meaning of,
what must that be like in the new dance because it wasn't of blonde character so it's going well how would I be able to really think about thematic is bringing the audience to the story,
so you start think what would it be like and how would I get over to what Mrs be like on your identify very strongly emotionally with this stuff and then
and the question I suppose the thematic question is is grief
is there any consolation if you see if you like it is it is there ever any consolation from grief is kind of a question that the second act ask then the third act throws you into action we doing something about Uranus going to Thriller.
Problem I have with it is that there's a depth and complexity in a second bag.
Which is about which because we've gone is it will blow the level of plot below love cartoon a deeper level two story which is the theme and the interface between the ideas of the story that is iterator,
racism and and and director and etc and the the way the audience understands thinks about their own lives,
when you go from Matt to a thriller TV show you go from a complex story to a simple story,
which is ok then then then a simple what will he do will it be successful at it will he will he make it or will will it happen the way he wants or will it not measure o'clock question.
Yeah we all day delivery withheld his plan so what is he actually doing this we talk about I'm going to put I'm in a send you away on the Amtrak you like OK.
Excerpts
You genuinely believe that that's his actual.
So when you're in it you're in it.
Willis stuff you own a fill up but it still pushing you ask questions at the carrot.
A bit busy.
But you're not you're not asking the question or you know the question I'm asking the question,
I must have great wife and she watches on fold ok you'll you realise to the Thriller you realise there's probably some kind of some Sinister plan is Morse going on them you gotta do what your break every because you need your kind of working it out the question I'm asking watching it,
in what way is any of this this happening which I kind of understand you're not at know the detail of it but that it will be revealed to me in what way is this action anyway and answer,
or a companion peace to the deeper question if it is there ever in a can of any consolation and if the answer is in this situation yes because you killed him
then I don't believe that having a silly answer and you say well if it wasn't doing that fine but you've slept in too I think I think the problem,
is that you when you cut systematic love you get to 11 deep complexity,
because you're bringing me know also if it's the interface of the character the audience the story in the audience it's the filmmakers worth asking deep questions about the story to the audience with and responding to emotionally and then he wasn't well if two story out of that,
complex world into a simpler,
world of the Thriller and the plot and stuff and what I understand and get it because I was asking is ok but what now that we have some deep questions why am I being show the simpler world,
they must the only acceptable answer is because in somewhere will extend the room for my help this deeper questions and if it doesn't then what's it for,
it's just an app for me I just go.
The deep questions and about to a really complex and interesting I was all about 3 I get it it's I understand what they're doing it's beautifully done as I got a piece of Thriller construction is very nicely organised but the deep question stories asking is west of consolation.
And that and then the other guys went to see what's the answer that 3 gives us and I don't know it does I don't even get any answer.
Where can I buy Mira bottles that is agree with into the sense that it does actually.
Complete with the story that is built so far because if they had at any point in the scene,
where the husband and wife sit down together and she says you know what will make me feel better is if you could nap this guy and kill him and bury him in the woods and he goes ok I'll go and do that it would have made no sense.
Why won't why wouldn't it work.
It's completely against all the character that you've built up.
As we show them not talking to each other people not.
Not a bit of it but I think it's against who they are as people that they presented in terms of poop their choices are there there.
So what you're saying is the verdict is a construction which is designed in order to keep away from the audience the truth which is at the things they doing or not true to the characters that we seen in a second.
That's not quite what I'm saying what I'm saying is that what the writers and director of done quite masterfully is I think,
kept you in the moment in the same way that exterminating angel and love actually keep you in the moment.
That fedac sequence keeps you in the moment so that you're not thinking about it in terms of the largest story in the end going back to what you were saying Stu about there.
That plan though so we've never had the scene where there's a couple plan it out you've never had the scene where Matt and his friend who they're doing it he's doing the murder with come up with a plan.
As Matt is kidnapping Richard he's explaining I'm going to make you skip I'm going to get you out of the country and I think in that moment as an audience member experiencing it for the first time you genuinely believe that that's what he's trying to do because.
Go back to your question about does the wife believe that killing him will bring her con / I don't believe that at all what her conflict is,
is there she's wondering about her life and indifference to
people who experience loss of a child let's a through car accident whatever they're not constantly button up against the person who took the child away from it so the conflict with the wife has is this guy who murdered her son killed her son sorry.
That's the point part of the.
Ok is in her daily life and she cannot live like that and so.
There's more in this moment where ostensibly the dialogue between Richard and Matt is I'm getting you out of my wife's life then.
Matt shoots Richard.
And I buy that in the moment because he's like just we've seen this quakes in the sequence of Matt continue saying don't talk to me you bye.
When you are sitting in close proximity with the the person you believe murdered your son you are constantly restraining yourself.
And we see him Winnie leading life we go to we had seen any in shots earlier with,
missing him with a girl him at the shops to go to the house he's got a quite a niehaus it's got worse got a photo of him and Natalie he's got the life it is deprived of your son so,
I understand in the moment.
So in the moment you totally by the mats plan might have been I'm going to get you out but I actually so come to my emotions and I shoot you right.
And the film plays into that his friends as this wasn't the plan.
Exactly and that's the moment where it changes right because that the moment where you realise as an audience member that the plan was to murder him.
No cuz it's a double beat his friends has that wasn't planning on it wasn't meant to murder him and then his friend will meant to do in the woods and your way ok,
that's planning question becomes does his wife and then the wife is like I'm gonna cook you breakfast now cuz that's her way of relating.
Who did it in the moment but no.
In the moment but none of it works when you step back and think about who these characters are across the lodge.
So what you're saying is it works in the moment but actually think is a whole it makes no sense emotionally.
But a message when I'm in SA the factory very back to having this discussion she was the film is working formatically is making his ask.
Yes what is the film about.
And debate and ask these questions and I think the film is deliberately refusing to answer those and you can I'm not one of those people like you just didn't get it.
You can get something and not like it you can go I get the developers and ask me questions I just don't like it like I don't like it.
But I forgot I think it would be fun I'm making I think even though I do agree that not all that stuff I'm making is it the middle stories pneumatic when should go to a thematic level of.
F oh f story when she let you say we get away the plot in character be allowed the theme to rise up,
you're basing playlist all in all it's elements Bloch character in a female is it work above the surface and play you get a level of complexity once you as well drive with him under the surface again with her dad does.
You become simpler and anything the characters doing that anything the characters do it with you to revert to as well plotted story simply seems simplistic
in relation to the second back my problem is I don't think there's anything that you could do is when the Thriller world and even if he does decided to come in then
decided not to kill him for example I let him go I don't think that would have been so sweet to over to me because it's kind of like the fact is.
What the second at dramatises really well is it there is no concert is is that this action is not doing things doesn't make restock,
if you like in very simple terms and the third act is all about doing things is it I meant for me that's the issue that that I think there once you
get a list of the things to be aware of your writing thematically if you're bringing seem to the surface is that you get to level of complexity that you can't as well go back to a previous table you give you a wonderful to the store in a certain way and then you have to
an answer it in a certain way if you watch Amour.
Which we analysed in a previous Abbott.
If you watch in relation to in the pool in the bedroom you see the difference with a filmmaker's guess what you have to do if you get to that level 2 matter complexity you know and and and how you have to follow all the way down the line.
What I think is interesting about the film I mean this is not the observation and we talked a lot about the first date,
any what is interesting about the first day cause even though it's kind of romance very likely put it in the fence the question is the parents wanting to break up this girl will he break up with her and then he talks about how it's not.
Other questions about like Willy go to college really follow the life they wanted him to leave.
It's all it's all very light he says it's a summer thing but his actions are in contradiction.
Excerpts
Did part of the impact of being slightly long as you like why am I being shown.
Right like why why am I spending so much time with his but there is the moment the kind almost the centerpiece of the first act where they have the thematic speech.
Excerpts
Exactly what happens in the film multiple times age at which phase the stories actually about that,
in different ways but that's not very complex idea like the film stayed at anything the title in fact the film is drawing attention.
People talk about using their title like a live in script in the title it actually draws attention to itself so this is the theme of the film Love Actually doesn't be very light and maybe your reaction to in the bedroom is it it's not a profound is it kind of thing City.
Not as profound as I get through it I'm with white wine back on it's profundity to use a a Billy Connolly term but talking about the title what's amazing the opening scene of the film,
is the two lovers next to me Frank and Natalie running through Meadow you can't hear what they're saying,
it's like a very Nicholas Sparks thing to love is running through sunny Meadow and then it cut set in the bedroom on black late they're not in a bedroom.
Ok so complete your leg contrast eye and then the final scene as you said is Matt comes back.
Is with us is it done to something you realise the truth and Matt have been talking about there's planning this.
And she goes and says she treats him with a measure of forgiveness that she's not show him through the rest of the film,
by saying I'll go and make you breakfast right soon as this film is presenting you with an idea that in a way there's violence has helped,
her come to terms with the the murder of her son.
But there's some fascinating staging festival a lot of the dialogue is happening with just a shot,
of the Staircase she's walk down the second without a shirt and just lingers on the 2nd either the moon shot and you hearing them.
Talk to each other it's like there's an emptiness to it and then it the final shot the final two shots and seen one is on Matt.
Listening to wife is taking a bandaid off his finger where a lobster has cut him and you get no feeling that this murder has resolved his Grit so I don't think it's.
Encounter I don't think the 3rd at the questions are the 3rd at razor encounter to the 2nd at question but I do think they are different questions and that's where this perhaps a thematic.
Ugly ugly the thematic film for me I mean I know you are in that much pain you understand the world so much,
and then we're off to believe that at the same time we haven't been seen it but the same time they said well we could kill him,
and that woman has never thought for example that he has a mother but she will be going to the same pain that she's going through that she's incapable of that kind of empathy,
that character the second that is absolutely came for the empty yet she can't be allowed to feel that empathy because it wouldn't work if she did.
Oh and I think that's that the kindest do anything that in the end in development,
it's a trick is it a problem.
So we can hide the problem you know that's not good writing good writing in the honey.
Good writing is it ok if we do want this lovely complex in thematic complexity where do we take the story,
answering this story is we need them to kill him because that's what we want not that's a natural out flying a postcard in that situation that's for me is this.
It's not uncommon to found particularly.
I want to come to end into bloodshed as a way of kind of resolving the stories you know I mean we talked about get out being formatically complex but it still ends with him running around killing everyone you know.
They resolve back they pull back into the genre resolution of.
Toucan.
And get out the last 20 minutes at least interesting part of the story.
But also it get out it's set up in that genre I said it's different to in the bedroom where the last 20 minutes are completely different conventionally whoever.
Excerpts
If you want to see the first two thirds of the film anyway eagleburgmann you know this kind of very meditative,
patient what's the moments of reflection there is a great moment just before it transitions into the third act with a girl singing and give you those moments where you can mediate on what you're saying and then it turns into a frog and he.
I doubt many Bergman like that.
I'm wondering if there's some way that we can kind of wrap up our learning Cuz what do you sing to me even though we talked about this idea of sequences and when I got into it,
I was originally I was like there's going to be a secret for their support it's and I think some films do that like Apocalypse Now and I,
personally I like the idea of ok you can have it hybrid thematic character theme 8 thematic imagistic sequence.
What is interesting is there other ways to raise theme outside of it still structural but not necessary sequential.
In the bedroom does it through the juxtaposition of genre sequences so it doesn't necessarily have a sequence itself that is pneumatic.
But exposition it's am I have moments where you can consider thing but it is up to position and Self Love Actually is done it between different stories and Brunel almost Mr B.
I have kind of done it in the exterminating angel almost the whole.
I think the important thing to say is that in a we talk about anything else tractor way today about the,
you know if they have a certain stories almost the plot question what drives that film what's the
cat question arises has a cat confirm it's a diesel engine thematic legion film can you say what is the thematic question
and I think yes that is there is a thematic question that you can do find somewhere you can find a block? I right question for me that the matter question that drives the exterminating angel,
is will the audience understand.
Let the bushwahzee if they do not change the way they understand the relate to the world will literally be destroyed by the Run self-abnegation.
The complex question ok and it's not to do with the events primarily in the story of the film is to do with what the film makes the audience think,
to thematic questions not as well contained within the boundaries of the story I'm like plotting current questions HR because the theme,
when it's rate is about making the audience understand them as other questions themselves so it's going to be a question is work on the interface of the events that the story of the things that wasn't the story make the audience think about and what the audience thinks about,
and that connects also course what the filmmakers trying to make the audience think about so thematic question is really more a question that's is articulating what the filmmaker wishes the audience to understand and think about
as opposed to what's in the story itself is a it's ambitions I'm more than just contained within the story,
and that's an and that's the truth I'm at River sequence now see what's the sequence question of that thing is Will Francis Ford Coppola
now showing at these man watching the Playboy bunnies dance make the audience question the logic insanity of the American president Vietnam,
but I would say that is the as a work thematic question
it's not about will they do this in the store it's bigger than that it's always bigger than the story and that's a fundamental it is important question thematic question but they are posed
explored and said within the time scared of sequin Sorrento just as other secret questions are.
Open my key learnings from this exercise.
Is one just. Simply if you want to bring your theme to the south has a movie just take some time and remove plan character and in in the bedroom after the murder they're driving back.
Into town from this camp out in the woods and it's Just Cuts with montage of through the window of the houses going bye.
And because I was looking at the film through this lens I realised that the filmmakers were very deliberately saying you were just looking at houses right now.
There is no pot there is no character think about everything you've.
It's about getting home in time.
Lyrics pity but they didn't need to cut to a montage of how's it been going back and they then after that the very last shot of the film is actually the town.
It's a montage of shots of the town getting steadily further and further away I've been fascinated by two things from this home won't one is I if I want to make the theme of my film clip.
Pull back on Titan character but the other is also you can make a very thematic through film but if you're going to do it.
The level of craft you have to do keep the audience hooked into the micro flooding that they do in Love Actually in the exterminating angel is actually incredible late,
the amount of questions I wrote down watching the exterminating angel wait why is there a dead bird in that woman's purse why is she throwing the glass through the window all those kinds of things.
He doesn't bother to answer them but he's deliberately raise them because he's got some instinctive feel for when the audience needs to be leaning into the story and asking inquest.
Sample of these things out to me it's great example of you know if you wanted not do something,
you have to know what you need to do in order not do it to not do it is going to like you know little before Picasso can paint anything you want but he chooses to draw like that but it's not because you can't do anything else is because he can do everything else is able to do that,
and that the same as well because he's such a good filmmaker he can make a film that can't seem to break an awful lot of rules but still can't hold us together you have to understand deeply that got a craft that you're playing with because you're is very sophisticated kind of filmmaking,
very briefly I think that if it's been an art house and multiplex film is it art house movies are less interested in always driving the clock and character hard.
And so you tend to get more sections in those cousin movies where the plug characters eased off the thing comes through more and that's simply you know that means you can think what about with the feel like raisins what the trying to say and Stitch slightly outside the story.
Excerpts
And where is it gonna you driven commercial movie is it was about keeping your head in the story.
I hope you all feel like arguing with either Stu or myself about anything on this episode or anything in general and you can find many ways of getting in touch with us at our website at draught hyphen xero.com,
at the website you also find the show notes for this and all our other episodes as well as links to support us and spread the word for free
via a rating and review on Apple podcast very important for spreading the word or if you think that what we do here is worth a dollar
or preferably more than a dollar then you can also find links to a patron page to support us getting these episodes to you quicker.
Thanks and thanks for listening.